"University of Wisconsin Robotics Lab Home Page;; UW-Madison Robotics Lab;302 Mechanical Engineering;1513 University Avenue;Madison, WI 53706;;Vladimir Lumelsky, Director; About the Lab;; Brief Review of the Lab's Research Activities; People in the Lab;; Lab Technical Reports (compressed postscript available);; The Simulation Library, v2.0;; Related Courses;; Robotics Seminar;;Recent Projects and Selected Publication Abstracts;; Maze-searching algorithms;; Effect of kinematics in sensor-based motion planning;; Dynamics and sensor-based control: the Jogger's Model;; Sensing and planning;; Decentralized intelligence: groups of robots;; Special topics in sensor-based motion planning:; Tethered robots; Underwater robots; Kinematic redundancy;; Sensitive skin project;; Human-centered systems;; Computational Geometry; Related Research at UW--Madison;; Neil A. Duffie -- Manufacturing Systems;; Chuck Dyer -- Computer Vision;; Robert Lorenz -- Sensors and Actuators;; Jude Shavlik -- Machine Learning;; Robotics links;; IEEE Society of Robotics and Automation (IEEE RAS);; IEEE RAS Tech. Committee on Robot Motion & Path Planning;; Robotics Internet Resources Page;; Robotics Web Servers;; ROBOTICS;; NASA Telerobotics Research Program;; Robotics Frequently Asked Questions List; Local links; UW-Madison CS Dept; UW-Madison AI Group; UW-Madison College of Engineering; Comments/suggestions/errata: hert@cs.wisc.edu;"
"Vladimir J. Lumelsky's Home Page; Vladimir J. Lumelsky;Professor;Mechanical Engineering, Computer Sciences, and EC&E Depts.;University of Wisconsin-Madison;E-mail: lumelsky@engr.wisc.edu;Telephone: (608) 263-1659;Fax: (608) 265-2316;Ph.D., Institute of Control Sciences, Russian National;Academy of Sciences, Moscow, 1970.;; Research Interests: Robotics, Geometry and;Complexity of Motion Planning, Kinematics, Cognitive and;Information Aspects of Motion, Sensor-Based Intelligent Systems,;Industrial Automation, Control Theory, Pattern Recognition.; Research; My current research is in the area of fully automatic (robotic);and human-centered semi-automatic systems, and covers theoretical,;simulation/animation, and experimental work. In the area of fully;automatic systems, our focus is on development of means for;geometric reasoning and control necessary for automatic planning of;motion in a complex environment. A machine equipped with such means;is able to purposely move in a complex scene with multiple, perhaps;moving, obstacles of arbitrary shapes. We are especially interested;in a paradigm which assumes incomplete information and continuous;real-time computation based on sensory feedback (e.g., from vision;or range sensors). This model suggests economic active sensing; guided by the motion planning needs. A strong factor in such;systems is the effect of system dynamics and nonholonomic;contstraints on real-time control.;; As part of our work on human-centered systems, we study (jointly;with cognitive scientists) human skills in motion planning and space;orientation. These results are then used for comparison with the;performance of automatic systems and for developong hybrid physical;(teleoperated) and computer graphics interaction systems. The major;property of such a hybrid system is that it blends together, in a;synergistic manner, human and machine intelligences. Our;hardware/experimental work includes systems with massive real-time;sensing and control (e.g. with thousands of sensors operating in;parallel).;Courses;;Recent Projects. Selected Publications;Maze-searching algorithms;Effect of kinematics in sensor-based motion planning;Dynamics and sensor-based control: the Jogger's Model;Sensing and planning;Decentralized intelligence: groups of robots;Special topics in sensor-based motion planning:;Tethered robots; Underwater robots; Kinematic redundancy;Sensitive skin project;Human-centered systems;Computational Geometry; Some global links;;IEEE Society of Robotics and Automation (IEEE RAS);IEEE RAS Tech. Committee on Robot Motion & Path Planning; Some Links at U-Wisconsin;;Robotics Lab Home Page;;College of Engineering;;Mechanical Engineering Dept;;Electrical and Computer Engineering Dept;;Computer Sciences Dept;;Mathematics Dept;;Mathematics and Computation in Engineering Graduate Program (MaCE);;Sea Grant Institute;"
"ECE 552 Home Page.; ECE 552 Intro to Computer Architecture; Fall 1996;Professor Saluja;NOTE: This page contains links to information for ECE 552, a course; in the Electrical and;Computer Engineering Department of the University of Wisconsin -;Madison. Materials are intended solely for the use of students;enrolled in this course for the Fall 96 semester.; Professor and TA: Prof. Kewal Saluja; Mr. Dan Sorin; General;Information;;Course Outline;Course Conduct; A Midterm;Syllabus is now available.; An old midterm;is now available.; Project specifications; are now available.;;Homework Assignments; Fall 1996;; HW#1;Problem;Solution; HW#2;Problem;Solution; HW#3 (Part II solution is now available);Problem;Solution to Part I;Solution to Part II; HW#4 (Problem is now valid);Problem;Solution; MENTOR HELP For the;project you need to use the Mentor Graphics Tools available on CAE;workstations. Please refer to the course outline for the project due;dates.;The following literature on Mentor Tools will be of assistance to anyone who;may be having problems. These manuals are available online through;bold_browser or may be checked out at CAE: Getting;Started with Design Architect Training Workbook pages 1-35 to;1-48 and 2-60 to 2-88 Getting Started with Quicksim II Training;Workbook do the lab exersise Additionally, these;documents contain references to other documents which may be of help.;Click to send an email to Professor: Kewal Saluja TA: Dan Sorin; Surfing Links:;UW Engineering Homepage CAE Announcements News group WiscINFO, The UW Gopher Site The UW;Engineering FTP server; This file last modified 9-September-96 9:00pm;CST.; Email questions and comments to Dan Sorin.;"
"UW CS Home Page;Computer Sciences Department;About the Computer Sciences Department;Our department was formed in 1963 and is consistently ranked as one of the;top ten computer science departments in the country. Faculty members have;received fourteen Presidential Young Investigator awards, two Packard;Fellowships, an NSF Faculty Award for Women Scientists and Engineers, a;DEC Incentives for Excellence Award, three ACM doctoral dissertation awards,;and three IBM Faculty Development Awards.; The Computer Sciences Department by area; Research projects and information; People in the Computer Sciences Department; Courses offered; Fall 1996 classes; and future timetables; Technical reports; Computer Systems Lab (CSL); CSL's answers to frequently asked questions; Computer Sciences alumni information; Graduate Guidebook; Undergraduate Guidebook; The department's annual report; CS online utilities; UW-Madison local services; CS-related organizations; Colophon and statistics for this server; Useful info;Computer Sciences Department;University of Wisconsin - Madison;5355a Computer Sciences and Statistics;1210 West Dayton Street;Madison, WI 53706;cs@cs.wisc.edu / voice: 608-262-1204 / fax: 608-262-9777;www@cs.wisc.edu;"
"Condor Project Homepage;Objective:;The goal of the Condor project is to develop, implement, deploy, and evaluate;mechanisms and policies that support High Throughput Computing (HTC) on large collections;of distributively owned computing resources. Guided by both the technological;and sociological challenges of such a computing environment, the;Condor Team has been building software tools that enable scientists and;engineers to increase their computing throughput.;; How Did It Start?;; High Throughput Computing (HTC) Research;; The Condor System;;; Condor Pools at University of;Wisconsin, Madison;; Condor Help Page at CAE;; DBC Project Home Page;; Condor-World Mailing List;;Any comments or suggestions;condor-admin@cs.wisc.edu;Last Modified Sun Sep 15 1996;"
"NEXT! Homepage;; What is NEXT!?;; People on the NEXT! Project;Last Modified September, 1995;miron@cs.wisc.edu;"
"Coral Database Project;Coral Database Project;Document Contents:;Objective;Overview;Release Information;See Also:;Publications related to Coral;People working on Coral;Other Research at UW-Madison;Objective:;The objective of the CORAL project is to develop a robust and efficient;deductive database system, and to investigate its use in various;application domains. Several of the algorithms underlying the Coral;system have been developed by members of the group during the duration;of the project (since 1988).;Overview:;Coral is a deductive system which supports a rich declarative language,;and an interface to C++ which allows for a combination of declaritive;and imperative programming. The declarative query language supports;general Horn clauses augmented with complex terms, set-grouping,;aggregation, negation, and relations with tuples that contain;(universally quantified) variables. A CORAL declarative program can;be organized as a collection of interacting modules. The CORAL;implementation supports a wide range of evaluation strategies, and;automatically chooses an efficient evaluation strategy for each module;in the program. In addition, users are permitted to guide query optimization,;if desired, by selecting from among a wide range of control choices at;the level of each module.;The CORAL system provides imperative constructs such as update, insert;and delete rules. CORAL also has an interface with C++, and users can;program in a combination of declarative CORAL and C++ extended with;CORAL primitives. A high degree of extensibility is provided by allowing;C++ programmers to use the class structure of C++ to enhance the CORAL;implemenation. CORAL provides support for both main-memory and;disk-resident data. Disk-resident data is supported using the;EXODUS;storage mananger, which also provides transaction management in a;client-server environment.;Release Information:;The current release of Coral is Version 1.5, released October 10, 1996.;To install Coral on your system, then grab the tar file you want.;The nobin version contains only the source code, requiring;you to compile Coral. The other versions include pre-made binaries for;the indicated machine type.;;Click on a file to grab it:;README : General information.;Installation Manual for Coral : Instructions for installation.;coral-1.5.nobin.tar.gz : No binaries included.;coral-1.5.hpux.tar.gz : HP-UX (series 700) binaries included.;coral-1.5.sun4.tar.gz : SunOs 4 binaries included.;coral-1.5.sun5.tar.gz : Sun Solaris binaries included.;coral-1.5.sol386.tar.gz : PC Solaris binaries included.;coral-1.5.linux.tar.gz : Linux binaries included.;To stay informed of new releases, you can add yourself to Coral's announcemnt; mailing list;which recieves announcements of releases and other relevant information.;Releases are also announced on the newsgroup comp.lang.misc.;You may also submit questions, comments,; or bug reports for coral.;Or send mail to:;coral@cs.wisc.edu;Last Modified:;October 10, 1996;Shawn Flisakowski / flisakow@cs.wisc.edu;"
"Complementarity Problem Net: Algorithms and Applications; Complementarity Problem NET;As a result of more than three decades of research, the subject of;complementarity problems, with its diverse applications in engineering,;economics, and sciences, has become a well-established and fruitful;discipline within mathematical programming. Several monographs;and surveys have documented the basic theory, algorithms, and applications;of complementarity problems and their role in optimization theory.;This page serves as a center for information regarding research in;complementarity problems. As such there is a listing of meetings;of interest to the community, some pointers to software for;complementarity problems as well as links to other pages of interest.;A listing of researchers and some application areas are also given.; Table of Contents;; Directory of Researchers in Complementarity;; Software for Complementarity Problems;; Applications of Complementarity;; Relevant Web Links;;Directory of Complementarity Researchers;Software for Complementarity Problems;MCPLIB:;A collection of nonlinear mixed complementarity problems, problem;description, and how to access the GAMS source files for;these problems.;Complementarity Toolbox for MATLAB:;This (evolving) freely available toolbox consists of several mex and;m-files. These allow all the MCPLIB problems to be accessed from;MATLAB without access to GAMS. The mex files give function;evaluations and sparse Jacobian evaluations. Machine specific;versions can be downloaded.;The PATH solver is also available in this toolbox, more details below.;Solver Interface to GAMS:;This describes a library of routines that are;available to help hook your solver to the GAMS/MCP modeling language.;Contact steve@gams.com, rutherford@colorado.edu or ferris@cs.wisc.edu;for further details.;MILES:;MILES is an extension of the classical;Josephy-Newton method for NCP in which the solution to each linearized;subproblem is computed via Lemke's almost-complementary pivot algorithm.;This Newton point is used to define;the Newton direction, which is then used in a damped;linesearch. The merit function used measures both the violation in;feasibility and in complementarity. MILES also employs a restart;procedure in cases where the Newton point cannot be computed due to;termination in a secondary ray.;Every linearized subproblem is rescaled to equilibrate the elements;appearing in the data of the subproblem.;PATH:;(Runs under GAMS/MCP;or directly under MATLAB):;The PATH solver applies techniques similar;to those used in Newton methods for smooth systems to a;nonsmooth reformulation of the MCP. The algorithm;consists of a sequence of major iterations, each consisting of an;approximation or linearization step similar to that of MILES,;the construction of a path;to the Newton point (the solution to the approximation), and a;possible search of this path. When the Newton point does not exists or the;path cannot be entirely constructed, a step along the partially;computed path is taken before the problem is relinearized. A;nonmonotone watchdog strategy is employed in applying the path search;;this helps avoid convergence to local minima of the norm function for;the underlying nonsmooth equation and keeps the number of function;evaluations required as small as possible. A list of solver options;is given in the document;;NE/SQP: The NE/SQP algorithm is based upon;reformulating the NCP as a system of nonsmooth equations.;The NE/SQP algorithm implemented as a GAMS/MCP solver, its robustness;improved using a proximal perturbation strategy giving the;QPCOMP algorithm.;The nonsmoothness of the equations is;handled using directional derivatives of H.;SMOOTH;;The SMOOTH algorithm is based upon;reformulating the NCP as a system of nonsmooth equations and then;approximately solving a sequence of smooth approximations, which lead;to a zero of the nonsmooth system.;At each iteration,;a smooth approximation to the original system is formed where the;accuracy of the approximation is determined by the residual of the;current point. This is implemented as a GAMS/MCP system.;Other solvers;have been implemented as subsystems of GAMS and are compared in this paper.;Applications of Complementarity; Engineering;and Economic Applications of Complementarity Problems.;This paper lists many of the known applications of complementarity problems.; MPSGE: A preprocessor for the GAMS modeling language that;allows economic equilibrium problems to be formulated easily. See the;GAMS home page for further information.; NEMS;The National Energy Modeling System. There are several papers on related;algorithms;and a paper giving an;overview of the project.;; Relevant Web Links; Look up Michael Trick's Operations Research Page for some interesting OR links.; Look up Interior-Point Web for information on interior point;methods at the Argonne National Laboratories archive.;;Last modified: October 24, 1996 by Michael C. Ferris;ferris@cs.wisc.edu;"
"EXODUS Project Home Page;EXODUS - An Extensible Object-Oriented Database System Toolkit;NOTE: Document is under construction.;The Exodus project has been succeded by the;SHORE project but we still provide minimal support for users.;Both the;Exodus Storage Manager and a compiler for the E persistent;programming language;,;are available via ftp on ftp.cs.wisc.edu.;No licenses are required.;If more information is needed contact;exodus@cs.wisc.edu;Principal Investigators; Mike Carey; David DeWitt;See Also:;Publications related to EXODUS;SHORE: the successor to EXODUS;Latest Exodus Storage Manager and E compiler;Contributed software for the Storage Manager;A mailing list for Exodus users:; exodus_all@cs.wisc.edu;OO7 Benchmark: a benchmark for OODBS;Date Prepared:;19 April 1994;Michael Zwilling / zwilling@cs.wisc.edu.;"
"The Paradise Project;Paradise - A Parallel Database System for GIS Applications.;Document Contents:; Objective; Client Server Paradise; Samples of the Paradise Frontend; Contact Information;See Also:; Publications related to Paradise; People working on Paradise; SHORE Project: Object Manager used for Paradise; The OPT++ Extensible Optimizer; Paradise Bug; Reporting; Examine the;Sequoia 2000 Benchmark scripts used in the VLDB 94 paper.; Information on SSL .; UW-Madison, Database Research Group; UW-Madison, CS Department Server;Objective:;The objective of the Paradise project is to design, implement, and;evaluate a scalable, parallel geographic information system that is;capable of storing and manipulating massive data sets. By applying;object-oriented and parallel database technologies to the problem of;storing and manipulating geographic information we hope to;significantly advance the size and complexity of GIS data sets that;can be successfully stored, browsed, and queried.; Client Server Paradise:;Paradise is a database;system aimed at handling GIS types of applications. Paradise provides;a graphical user interface for querying and browsing the database and;supports a subset of SQL for issuing ad-hoc queries. Paradise;provides an extended-relational data model for modeling GIS;applications. In addition to support for the base data types such as;integer, real, and string, Paradise has built-in support for raster,;polygon, polyline, point, circle, and video (mpeg images) data.;Paradise uses SHORE as its underlying persistent object manager.;The Paradise front end allows you to display objects with spatial;attributes on a 2-D map. The map provides a layered display for;overlapping spatial attributes. Each layer corresponds to one query.;You can customize the ordering and display of the layers by selecting;color, labelling, and other display attributes for each query.;The database can be queried either with a graphical interface or with;ad-hoc queries. The graphical interface can be be used to issue;implicit spatial queries by zooming, clicking, and sketching a;rubber-banded box. For ad-hoc queries, Paradise provides a query;composer. Menus in the query composer provide access to the database;schema to assist in query composition. Query results can either be;viewed on the 2-D map, if they have spatial attributes, or they can be;displayed in a table so that you can browse the tuples in the result.;The front end also provides context-sensitive help.;Paradise supports a subset of SQL for issuing ad-hoc queries. To SQL;we have added the ability to invoke methods defined on the extended;set of types. For example, you can calculate the area of a polygon by;using the method polygon.area(). Paradise also supports the standard;database operations including create and drop database, create and;drop extent, create and drop indices, insert, and update.;The current version of Paradise employs a client-server architecture.;The front-end ships queries in our SQL syntax to the Paradise;server for execution. After executing the query, the server ships the;result objects back to the client. The Paradise server is;multi-threaded so that multiple clients can connect to the same;server. In designing and implementing the Paradise sever, careful;attention was paid to insure that the system could efficiently process;queries (especially those involving spatial attributes) on large;volumes of data.;Samples of the Paradise Frontend;Europe Data.; For more samples press;here.;Contact Information:;Paradise Project;ATTN: Prof. David J. DeWitt;University of Wisconsin-Madison;Computer Sciences Department;1210 West Dayton Street;Madison, WI 53706;Email: paradise@cs.wisc.edu;More To Come . . .;Biswadeep Nag (bng@cs.wisc.edu);"
"Net Scout Services Homepage;go to text version;Newsletter of new;and newly discovered;Internet resources and;network tools;Internet announcements;-- updated daily!;The most effective;Internet tools available;A web report for students,;by students;Surf smarter, not longer. Let the InterNIC Net Scout project at the; University;of Wisconsin - Madison show you the way to only the best--then you can;choose what's best for you. We filter hundreds of Internet annoucements;each week looking for the most valuable online resources and network;tools. Then we organize, summarize, and annotate the best of what we've;found, and offer it to the Internet community in several useful formats.;The goal of Net Scout is to support effective use of the Internet by;educators and researchers in the US. However, everyone is welcome to use;the publications and Web sites provided by Net Scout, and we encourage;feedback and suggestions from the entire Internet community.;The three primary services provided include the;Scout Report,;Net-Happenings, and the;Scout Toolkit. Our;newest project is Y'Know,;a Web report for students, by students.;Net Scout Services is located at the;Department of Computer Sciences at the;University of Wisconsin-Madison and is a project of the;InterNIC.;Comments, Suggestions, Feedback;scout@internic.net;© 1996 Net Scout Services;For more information on using the Internet:;;InterNIC Information & Education Services;"
"SHORE Project Home Page;SHORE - A High-Performance, Scalable, Persistent Object Repository;Document Contents:;Objective;Overview;Release Information;Mailing Lists;See Also:;Shore, version 1.0;; On-line Information;; Source, Binaries and Documentation;;The Beta-release of Shore (version 0.9.3);Publications related to Shore;People working on Shore;Latest Research Summary for ARPA;Paradise Project: a GIS built on SHORE;EXODUS Project: the predecessor to Shore;OO7 Benchmark: a benchmark for OODBs;Shore Photo Album;UW-Madison, Database Research Group;UW-Madison, CS Department Server;Objective:;The objective of the SHORE project is to design, implement, and;evaluate a persistent object system that will serve the needs of a wide;variety of target applications including hardware and software CAD;systems, persistent programming languages, geographic information;systems, satellite data repositories, and multi-media applications.;Shore expands on the basic capabilities of the widely-used;EXODUS;Storage Manager (developed at Wisconsin, funded by; ARPA ) in a number of;ways including support for typed objects, multiple programming;languages, a ""Unix-like"" hierarchical name space for named objects, and;a Unix-compatible interface to objects with a ""text"" field. This;interface is intended to ease the transition of applications from the;Unix file system environment to Shore as existing Unix tools such as vi;and cc will be able to store their data in Shore objects without;modification (basically a Unix file becomes either a single Shore;object or the text field of a more complex object).;Overview:;SHORE is something of a hybrid system by nature, inheriting;characteristics both from object-oriented database systems and from;file systems. This section briefly describe the basic features of;SHORE. The paper,;Shoring Up Persistent Applications,;describes SHORE in much greater detail.;SHORE has three major goals:;Scalability;Support for hardware and language heterogeneity;Support for existing, file-based applications;When the SHORE project began 3 years ago, these goals were unique;among the research and commercial OODBMS community. While the; ODMG effort;has also concentrated on providing some degree of support for language;heterogeneity (which, in turn, facilitates hardware heterogeneity),;SHORE remains distinguished by its focus on scalability and support;for applications that depend on the Unix file system for persistent;storage. Furthermore, since the SHORE data model (SDL) is basically;compatible with the ODMG data model (ODL),;we expect that much of the technology that we develop can eventually be;transferred to the commercial sector.;Scalable Architecture;SHORE's software architecture is unique is several ways.;First, SHORE uses a symmetric, peer-to-peer distributed;architecture. In SHORE, every participating processor runs a;SHORE server process whether or not the processor has SHORE data disks;attached. The software has been designed to be scalable;;it can run on a single processor, a network of workstations, or;a large parallel processor such as the Intel Paragon or IBM SP1/2.;This design is in contrast to the client-server architecture;used by EXODUS and all the OODBMS vendors. While a client-server;architecture is fine for a design environment such as is typically;used in software and hardware CAD efforts, it is not scalable.;The second unique feature of the SHORE architecture is its notion;of a ``value-added'' server. By structuring the software that runs;in the server with extensibility in mind, it is relatively simple for;users to build application-specific servers. For example, the;Paradise project;is already using the SHORE server to build a geographic information system for; NASA's;EOSDIS project.;We feel that these two unique pieces of technology will play a;important role in a variety of future research and commercial endeavors.;For example, the digital libraries of the future will almost certainly;depend on the availability of scalable, persistent object technology.;Such systems are going to store, retrieve, manipulate, and transmit;objects containing video and pictures as well as text. While;current OODBMS products could be used, these systems are oriented;toward dealing with gigabytes, and not terabytes, of data.;Customizability is equally important. The indexing, retrieval,;and query processing mechanisms needed for a digital library;are very different from those required for a geographic information;system.;Language and Hardware Heterogeneity;Objects in SHORE are typed. SHORE provides a single, language-neutral;type system that is used to define the types of all SHORE objects.;This type system is embodied in the SHORE Data Language (SDL),;which is the language in which SHORE object types are defined.;SDL enhances the OMG data model IDL with support for database;features such as bulk types (e.g., sets and lists) and persistence.;The provision of typed persistent objects simplifies the task of;supporting heterogeneous hardware environments and makes it feasible;to support access to persistent objects from multiple programming;languages, which is a key objective of the SHORE project.;As mentioned earlier, SDL is quite closely related to ODL,;the language-neutral object type definition language that was;recently proposed as a standard by the OODB vendor consortium ODMG.;In terms of its emphasis, however, ODMG has largely concentrated on;providing a standardized interface to existing C++ oriented OODBs.;Our focus is on support for inter-language object sharing within;a large name-space of objects.;Support for Existing, File-based Applications;A major goal of SHORE is to enable applications that currently;use untyped, byte-oriented files for their persistent data,;flattening and un-flattening their data each time it is accessed,;to stop doing so.;Such applications should be able to store their data as typed, structured;objects for more convenient, type-safe, intra- and inter-program data sharing.;Our ultimate hope is that SHORE will displace byte-oriented;file systems such as the Unix file system.;SHORE provides two major services from a file system standpoint. First,;to support object naming and space management in a world with many;persistent objects, SHORE provides a flexible, tree-structured,;Unix-like name-space in which all persistent objects are reachable,;either directly or indirectly. Doing so gives SHORE users;a familiar framework in which to register individual;persistent objects (termed ""registered"" objects), the roots of;large persistent data structures, or bulk sets of unnamed objects (termed;""anonymous"" objects). The realization of this framework involves;several different kinds of SHORE file system objects, including;directories, pools (which are files containing anonymous objects),;symbolic links, and cross references.;SHORE provides two mechanisms to ease the transition of legacy Unix;applications such as compilers, editors, and CAD systems from;traditional byte-stream files to SHORE.;First, for applications that can be re-linked, SHORE provides a standard;Unix-compatible file system interface (e.g. open, close, read,;write, mkdir, chdir,.).;In order to make access to SHORE objects via Unix file system calls;possible, the definer of a SHORE object type can optionally designate one;variable-length byte string or character string attribute of the object as;being the object's ""Unix data"". Programs that attempt to read an object;through SHORE counterparts of the Unix file system calls;will only see this portion of the object. For legacy programs that;wish to do so without being re-linked, it is possible to NFS-mount a;SHORE file system and access the Unix data;contained in its objects directly. This makes it feasible for both;new and old applications to access the same set of objects.;While old applications can only access the ""Unix data"" component;of the object, new applications can define and access other, more;structured, attributes of the object.;Release Information:;Below is the latest time table for the release of SHORE.;These dates are approximate and subject to change.;If you have any questions, contact;shore_support@cs.wisc.edu.; Beta Release (0.9);On May 3, 1995 we had our first beta release.; Beta Release (0.9.3);The second Beta-rlease of Shore (version 0.9.3); is now available (Sept 18, 1995).;It includes improved documentation, more complete;implementations of many SDL features, many bug fixes, and ports to;Solaris, HP-UX, Linux.; Version 1.0;On August 6, 1995 we released Shore, version 1.0.;Gzip'd tar files of the source, documentation and a binary release (sparc and;pentium solaris 2.5), can be found at;<ftp://ftp.cs.wisc.edu/shore/1.0/>;.;Mailing Lists;There are two Shore-related mailing lists:;shore_support@cs.wisc.edu;and;shore_all@cs.wisc.edu;.;shore_support@cs.wisc.edu;This mailing list reaches the Shore development team.;It is for use;by Shore users to submit questions, comments, and bug reports to us.;You cannot subscribe to this mailing list.; shore_all@cs.wisc.edu;This is a mailing list for users of (and those interested in) SHORE.;This list is managed by the listproc software at the UW-Madison;CS department. It is currently unmoderated, but in the unlikely;event that it gets cluttered with junk mail we will moderate it.;mail messages. If you are interested in the list, but your mailbox is;already too cluttered, you can sign up for weekly digests. See below;for more information. More information about the list will be sent;when you subscribe.; Purpose of shore_all; Notifying interested parties of new releases and other changes in the Shore ftp archive; Requests for help from other users;By default, replies will be sent only to the sender, rather than being;posted to the entire list. If you want the entire list to see your;reply, just copy the reply to shore_all.;This list is an public mailing list. Thus, anyone may;subscribe to it. Only subscribers may post to the list. The existence;of this list is shown in the listing returned by listproc when;it processes a LISTS request. When you subscribe, your;subscription is ""concealed"" by default. That is, other subscribers;cannot obtain the membership list from the listproc system.; Subscribing to shore_all;To subscribe or to change your subscription, you must mail a special;message to: listproc@cs.wisc.edu.; To subscribe, the content of the message should look like this:;subscribe shore_all; To receive weekly digests (rather than individual messages), send;this along with your subscription (or send it in a separate; message):;set shore_all mail digest; To un-subscribe, the content of the message should be:;unsubscribe shore_all; To get help on the list processor, the content of the message;should be:;help;Last Modified:;Mon Mar 18 10:41:39 CST 1996;Nancy Hall;/ nhall@cs.wisc.edu.;Footnotes:;... compatibility with ODL;SHORE and ODMG concurrently decided to use the OMG data model;IDL as the starting point for their data models. Hence SDL and ODL;are very similar to one another. Once ODL stabilizes;we can convert SDL to be 100% compatible with ODL.;"
"Abhinav's Home Page; Welcome to Abhinav Gupta's Den; agupta@cs.wisc.edu;gupta@cae.wisc.edu; This page is under construction;; Graduate Student; Department of Computer Science; University of Wisconsin, Madison; Contact via;ResidenceOffice;; 2016, Kendall Avenue, Apt #2, Madison, WI-53705, USA; Department of Computer Sciences, 1210, W.Dayton Street, #3360, Madison, WI-53706, USA; (608) 232-1894 (608) 262-9275;Some other interesting links:; Indian newspapers; Other Stuff (CNN,MTV,Sports,etc.); You can; finger me to find my whereabouts.;"
Alain Kägi's Home Page;Alain Kägi; (click here for a larger picture.);The largest carnivore that ever lived.;Last modified Sat Sep 9 14:14:55 by Alain Kägi; (alain@cs.wisc.edu);
"Carolyn Allex's Home Page; Carolyn F. Allex;Graduate Student;Biotechnology Training Program Trainee;Computer Sciences Department;University of Wisconsin - Madison;1210 West Dayton Street;Madison, Wisconsin USA 53706;E-mail: allex@cs.wisc.edu;Telephone: (608) 258-7420;Fax: (608) 258-7439;Advisor: Professor Jude W. Shavlik;Interests:;;Computational biology, DNA sequencing, protein folding, artificial intelligence, machine learning, neural networks;Education:;;MS Computer Sciences, University of Wisconsin - Madison;BS Computer Science, Purdue University;BS Education, Mankato State University; Related Links;; University of Wisconsin CS Department;; University of Wisconsin AI Group;; University of Wisconsin Machine Learning Group;; University of Wisconsin Computational Biology Research;; Intelligent Systems for Molecular Biology-94 (ISMB-94);; Intelligent Systems for Molecular Biology-95 (ISMB-95);; Intelligent Systems for Molecular Biology-96 (ISMB-96);"
"Amir's Home Page;Amir Roth;Delphi32 maven, on the 60-day DL, ""that guy on that show""; 1028 Erin St #3; Madison, WI 53715; 608-256-9743; CS 6360; 608-262-6614; FAX: 608-262-9777;amir@cs.wisc.edu; An occasionaly updated copy of my resume (CVTE).;;""The truth is out there!"";[PL group |;PL Seminar |;Arch group |;Arch Seminar |;CS640 |;CS838];This week's hot research topics; Implementing a compiler using just the C preprocessor.; Delegating work to your project partners.; Setting off airport metal detectors.;The ins and outs of my existence;I am graduate student in the Department of Computer Science at the University of Wisconsin, Madison. My new advisor, Guri Sohi, and I are looking into methods of alleviating data dependences in Multiscalar programs using the distributed register file. Multiscalar programs are all that and a side of curly fries.;I have a BS in Physics from Yale University and an advanced degree in nail design from Valley Beauty School. Physics is interesting, but my beauty degree is much more practical.;I live with my girlfriend Marci and our two cats, Joe and Charlie. Marci also went to Yale, and now she is getting a masters in public policy from LaFollette Institute. One day, she is going to be president. In the meantime, she likes to solve linear regression problems, try out wacky recipes she finds in magazines and watch 'Party of Five'.;I like eggplant, which most people think is weird.;Anyway, I promised the ins and outs...; In: Subba. Out: My ex-officemates Mac Daddy and Mr. November.; In: Two titanium screws. Out: My ACL.; In: Desi Relaford. Out: Terry Mulholland.; In: Oxygen. Out: Carbon dioxide.;Areas of Vague Interest; Programming languages, program analysis, and super-whack compiler optimizations.; Parallel algorithms.; Theory (good for the soul); Analysis, evaluation, modeling and performance enhancement of my three-point shot; All things big and scary;Areas of Rabid Interest;The love. If you don't know what I am talking about, you better leave this page at once, never to return.;Hmmm. What AM I interested in?;Super Handy;Informatik index of computer science journals and authors.;MadCAT.;MKP architecture resources.;Up to the minute NBA and MLB scores.;Sportsline.;Who did what to whom in Philly.;Everybody's favorite engineer.;Super Icky;The news. My friend Barb writes articles for these guys, I'm not going to read them but you can if you want. (Just kidding, Barb);My friend Drew's home page at Cornell.;David's home page at CMU. And you think I'm wierd.;A page featuring my friend Sue, and my friend by association Kemin.;Last modified: Sun Mar 17 17:26:03 1996 by Amir Roth;amir@cs.wisc.edu;"
"Amos Ron's Home Page;;key words for search engines: approximation theory, splines, wavelets, box;splines, radial basis functions, shift-invariant spaces, approximation to;scattered data, multiquadrics, thin-plate splines;;;to my homepage;Amos Ron;Associate Professor;Department of Computer Sciences;University of Wisconsin-Madison;1210 West Dayton Street;Madison, Wisconsin 53706-1685 USA;E-mail: amos@cs.wisc.edu;;Telephone: (608) 262-6621;Fax: (608) 262-9777;Amos Ron's Home Page is presently under; Table of links;At present, only; items are accessible.;If you are here in order to download the paper;Affine systems: the analysis of the analysis operator;of Zuowei Shen and me, choose between the following versions:;if you are using Unix, click;HERE, to get a compressed version.;Otherwise, download the uncompressed version from;HERE.;If none works, our ftp server may be down. Try then to get a copy directly;from my account;HERE.;For CS513 handouts and email, click;HERE;Click;my vita if you want to see my vita.;List of various publications, including abstracts.;Selected; articles;of mine.;Information about anonymous ftp site.;Carl de Boor and I maintain an ftp site at; ftp.cs.wisc.edu.;The site contains;postscript and compressed postscript files of various articles of the;approximation theory group at UW. Also found there are technical files;concerning TeX, vi and more, that should be useful to the general public.;I recommend that you click the;read.me file, which provides a list of available files,;click there those that you wish to view (on-line),;view them on-line, and download those you wish to.;My Ph.D. students,;including information about their research and;publications.;My main areas of interest, together with a short;summary of my present research and future goals in each one of these.;The activity of the Approximation Theory group at the Univeristy of;Wisconsin, Madison.;The activity of the;Numerical Analysis group here.;Links to home pages of other;people in the approximation theory community can be;found HERE;Miscellaneous topics and activities.;Finally,; Please deposit any comments you have in my mailbox;"
"CS 354 Home Page; CS/ECE 354 - Machine Organization and Programming; 4 credits.;An introduction to current system structures of control,;communication, memories, processors and I/O devices.;Projects involve detailed study and use of a specific small computer;hardware and software system.;Prerequisites:;CS 302 or consent of instructor.;Not open to students who have taken;CS/ECE 552.;Open to Freshmen.;Semesterly course information:;No info as of Fall 1994.;"
"CS552 Page;CS/ECE 552 - Introduction to Computer Architecture; 3 credits.;The design of computer systems and components.;Processor design, instruction set design, and addressing;;control structures and microprogramming; memory management, caches,;and memory hierarchies; interrupts and I/O structures.;Prerequisites:;ECE/CS 352;and;CS/ECE 354;; co-req: CS 367.;Semesterly course information:;No info as of Fall 1994.;"
"CS 752 Home Page; CS/ECE 752 - Advanced Computer Architecture I; 3 credits.;Advanced techniques of computer design. Parallel processing and;pipelining;;multiprocessors, multi-computers and networks; high performance;machines and special purpose processors; data flow architectures.;Prerequisites:;CS/ECE 552; and CS 537.;Semesterly course information:;Fall 1994;"
"CS 757 Home Page; CS/ECE 757 - Advanced Computer Architecture II; 3 credits.;Parallel algorithms, principles of parallelism detection and vectorizing;compilers, interconnection networks, SIMD/MIMD machines, processor;synchronization, data coherence, multis, dataflow machines, special purpose;processors.;Prerequisites:;CS/ECE 752 or consent of instructor.;Semesterly course information:;No info as of Fall 1994.;"
Ranga; Arvind Ranganathan;; About Me!; My erstwhile workplace; My present workplace; Indiaworld; The fascinating world of Escher;; A collection of classic papers in Computer Science; Finger to see if I am logged on!;Arvind Ranganathan /; arvind@cs.wisc.edu;
"Ashish's Home Page; Ashish Thusoo; I'm a graduate student in the;Department of Computer Science at the;University of Wisconsin, Madison. I come from; India, and had;my undergraduate education at the Indian;Institute of Technology, Delhi. The;Department of CS at IITD is a fantastic place and worth visiting.; If you'd like to contact me, you can;finger me to find my whereabouts.;Alternatively, you can send email to me at ashisht@cs.wisc.edu .;"
"Ashraf Aboulnaga's Home Page;Ashraf Aboulnaga;Computer Sciences Department; (Room 3310);University of Wisconsin - Madison;1210 West Dayton St.;Madison - WI 53706;USA;Phone: (608) 262-1721;E-mail: ashraf@cs.wisc.edu;Education; MS in Computer Science, Alexandria University,; Alexandria,; Egypt, July 1996.; BS in Computer Science, Alexandria University,; Alexandria,; Egypt, June 1993.;CS132 Info; Section 319: Tue,Thu 5:20-6:35 pm.; View your grades; Section 320: Tue,Thu 6:40-7:55 pm.; View your grades; Office hours: Mon,Wed 4:00-5:00 pm.; Go to the; CS132-Desautels home page.;Last modified: September 16, 1996 by Ashraf Aboulnaga.;(finger);"
"Home Page of Eric Bach;; Eric Bach; Professor; Computer Sciences Department; University of Wisconsin; 1210 W. Dayton St.; Madison, WI 53706-1685; telephone: (608) 262-1204; fax: (608) 262-9777; email:; bach@cs.wisc.edu;Ph.D., University of California, Berkeley, 1984;Interests:;Theoretical computer science, computational number theory, algebraic;algorithms, complexity theory, cryptography, six-string automata; Research Summary;I am interested in how one uses computers to efficiently solve;algebraic and number-theoretic problems (example: how does one;tell if a 100-digit number is prime without examining all possible;factors?). These problems have intrinsic mathematical interest,;as well as applications to random number generation, codes for;reliable and secure information transmission, computer algebra,;and other areas.;I am also interested in applying probability theory to the design;and analysis of algorithms. For example, if a large number is;composite, it can be proved so by a simple test that uses an auxiliary;number, called a `witness.' In practice one usually finds a witness;by direct search among the small primes. This leads to the following;natural question. How large is the least witness, as a function;of the number tested? In recent work, we have given an accurate;heuristic model, based on probabilistic assumptions, that allows;this, and similar questions, to be answered.; Recent Publications;Improved approximations for Euler products,;Proc. CNTA-4 (Canadian Math. Soc. Proceedings, v. 15) , 1995.;;DNA models and algorithms for NP-complete problems (with A. Condon,;E. Glaser, S. Tanguay),;Proc. 11th Annual Conf. on Computational Complexity, 1996.;Algorithmic Number Theory (Volume I: Efficient Algorithms);(with J. Shallit), MIT Press, 1996. For info click on;;ANT-1.;;Curriculum Vitae; This page created July 30, 1996.; Email bach@cs.wisc.edu;to report errors.;"
"Bart Miller's Home Page;;Barton P. Miller;(bart@cs.wisc.edu);Professor;Computer Sciences Department;University of Wisconsin - Madison;1210 West Dayton Street;Madison, WI 53706 USA;The following is a list of some of the things that I do.;Research Projects:;;Paradyn Parallel Performance Tools;;Fuzz Random Software Testing;Teaching:;;CS537: Introduction to Operating Systems (Spring 1996);;CS638/699: Honors Internet Seminar;;CS736: Advanced Operating Systems (Fall 1996);;CS739: Distributed Systems;;Director, Undergraduate Projects Lab;;My Ph.D. Graduates;Professional:;;1996 Symposium on Parallel and Distributed Tools;;Monona Terrace (Frank Lloyd Wright) Convention Center Technical Advisory Group;Personal:;;My ""Official"" CS Department Home Page;;Some Family Photos;bart@cs.wisc.edu / Last modified:;Tue Aug 13 15:11:33 CDT 1996;"
"CS 736 - Advanced Operating Systems - Fall 1996;UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN-MADISON;Computer Sciences Department;CS 736;Fall 1996;Bart Miller;CS 736: Advanced Operating Systems;Summary;This course is intended to give you a broad exposure to advanced;operating systems topics.;We will be reading about and discussing such topics as protection, security,;memory management, operating system kernels, file systems, synchronization,;naming, and distributed systems.;Please read the rest of this information sheet carefully.;Text;There is really no satisfactory textbook for a graduate level operating;systems;class, so we will use the current literature as our text.;The course will be structured around readings from journal articles and;conference proceedings.;You will be able to purchase these readings at DoIT (CS736 handout #1).;During each class, we will discuss topics relevant to the current papers.;The lecture will not be a detail-by-detail review of the papers, but will;instead be a;discussion of major topics and themes using the papers a focal point.;You will form reading groups with 2 or 3 of your classmates that will meet;once or twice a week to discuss the details of the assigned papers.;The readings are an especially important part of the class.;We will go through the reading list;according the posted reading schedule.;So, the formula for being successful in this class is (1) read the papers;independently, (2) discuss them in your reading group, trying to identify;the important issues, and (3) participate in the class discussion of the;papers.;Class Discussions;Class meetings will be in the form of discussion lectures.;We will talk about the day's topics, and this discussion will be;supported by your comments and opinions.;If you are willing to participate actively and daily in class, you'll get;a lot out of it.;If you expect to sit quietly and listen for 15 weeks, you will be;very unhappy in this class.;Papers;During this class, you will write two papers - one short (6 pages) and;one longer.;The first paper;will be a design, based on ideas that you have read.;You will work from some well-understood operating system facility;and design an extension in some area.;The second paper will involve a project,;and the paper will be a summary;of that project.;There will be a;selection of project topics;from which to choose.;Writing well will be as important as writing about good ideas.;Each paper will be reviewed at least twice.;The first reading will be a refereeing of the paper by one of your fellow;students.;This will give the writer critical comments by another person, and give;the reader a look at someone else's writing.;The paper will then be revised for a second pass that will be read by me.;Exams;There will be no exams.;The papers and reading will keep you busy.;Grades;Scores and final grades will be posted here as assignments are graded.;Details;Time: Tuesday/Thursday, 1300-1415;Place: 1257 CS;Office hours: Tuesday/Thursday, 1100-noon;Last modified:;Thu Sep 5 17:13:43 CDT 1996;by;bart;"
"Ben's 100% Hyper Home Page;Benjamin Teitelbaum;Computer Sciences Department;University of Wisconsin -- Madison;1210 West Dayton Street, Rm. 3310;Madison, WI 53706-1685;USA;ben@cs.wisc.edu;Résumé;Quince;- ""the Internet's ultimate word game"";Zillions of Bookmarks;"
"Gareth Bestor's Home Page;Welcome to Gareth Bestor's Home Page;Gareth S. Bestor;Dissertator and Teaching Assistant;Computer Sciences Department;University of Wisconsin-Madison; 1210 West Dayton Street; Madison, WI 53706-1685, U.S.A.; Telephone: (608) 262-6601; Fax: (608) 262-9777; E-mail: bestor@cs.wisc.edu (click here for finger); World-Wide-Web: http://www.cs.wisc.edu/~bestor;Systems Administrator;Data and Program Library Service; 1180 Observatory Drive; Madison, WI 53705, U.S.A.; Telephone: (608) 262-7962; E-mail: bestor@dpls.dacc.wisc.edu;Education:;M.S. Computer Sciences, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 1991;B.Sc. (honors) Computer Science, Massey University, New Zealand, 1989;B.Sc. Computer Science, Massey University, New Zealand, 1988; Curriculum Vitae (PostScript); Resume (PostScript); Graduate Coursework (PostScript);;Dissertation Research;Title:; Structure from Motion: the Inverse Projection Problem;Abstract:; An important problem in computer vision is recovering the 3-D structure of a scene and the position of the observer within it from one or more projected 2-D images. This is essentially the inverse projection problem. Existing Structure-From-Motion (SFM) techniques solve this problem by examining multiple images projected from a rigid scene. However SFM has not been used extensively in practice because these techniques are very sensitive to noise, do not accurately model optical projection, or restrict the position of the observer and/or the structure of the scene. My research uses a new technique for solving the inverse projection problem called the Concurrent Projector Model which makes no assumptions about the scene other than it is rigid and no assumptions about the position of the observer. This technique uses a projector based model of projection instead of the camera based model traditionally used in SFM. As a result, the algorithm is defined for any geometric transformation in any dimension, not just 3-D perspective projection. For a given transformation and dimension the algorithm identifies when the inverse projection problem is under-constrained and specifies the minimum number of points and images required to solve it. The Concurrent Projector Model can also examine additional points and images to minimize the types of projection errors that occur in real-world applications by allowing the projectors to approximately intersect.;This technique is currently being applied to the problem of robot navigation and exploration to both determine the position of a robot in an unknown environment and at the same time to map this environment.;Advisor:; Prof. Charles R. Dyer;Research Interests:; Computer and machine vision, vision-based robot navigation and exploration, 3-D computer graphics, virtual reality.; Artificial Intelligence Group; Computer Vision Group; Machine Learning Research Group; Robotics Lab;Teaching Duties for Spring 1995-96;CS 110 Introduction to Computer Programming:; Sections 1 and 2 (FORTRAN); CS 110 is a one-credit course which covers the basic programming structures needed to prepare students for CS 310 and elementary engineering courses. No prior computer programming experience is required and only a basic knowledge of computers is assumed. The material covered enables students to write simple computer programs to solve engineering problems in elementary courses. All programming is done in FORTRAN. This course is intended for students who received little or no programming instruction in high school.;These sections are taught entirely in the FORTRAN programming language and are intended primarily for engineering students and non-computer science majors.; CS 110 Sections 1 and 2 Home Page;CS 302 Algebraic Language Programming:; Section 70 (FORTRAN); Construction of algorithms; problem solving; instruction and experience in the use of at least one procedure-oriented language (e.g., Pascal or Fortran); survey of other such languages, advanced programming techniques. Prereq: Advanced high school mathematical preparation or some college work in mathematics, statistics or logic; or consent of instructor. Open to Fr.; This section is taught entirely in the FORTRAN programming language and is intended primarily for engineering students and non-computer science majors.; CS 302 Section 70 Home Page;Other Pointers of Interest; Computer Sciences Department Home Page; University of Wisconsin-Madison WiscINFO Home Page; Information about New Zealand; UW Hoofer Outing Club; NEXTSTEP and NeXT Software, Inc.; Starting Points for Internet Exploration; Lycos (search the World-Wide-Web by keyword);Copyright &copy 1996 Gareth S. Bestor (bestor@cs.wisc.edu). Last modified January 30, 1996.;"
"CS 110 Section 2 Home Page;CS 110 Introduction to Computer Programming;Section 2 (FORTRAN);CS 110 is a one-credit course which covers the basic programming structures needed to prepare students for CS 310 and elementary engineering courses. No prior computer programming experience is required and only a basic knowledge of computers is assumed. The material covered will enable you to write simple computer programs to solve engineering problems in elementary courses. All programming is done in FORTRAN. This course is intended for students who received little or no programming instruction in high school.;This section is taught entirely in the FORTRAN programming language and is intended primarily for engineering students and non-computer science majors. Click here for a course description.;Menu; IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENTS - READ NOW!; Lectures; Instructor; Grading Policy; Syllabus; Text and Lecture Notes; Programming Assignments; Problem Solving Exercises; Computer Lab; Other Pointers of Interest; Lectures;Section 2: 134 Psychology, 8:50 am MWF, March 18 to May 10;; Please be punctual to lectures to avoid disturbing the class.; Instructor - Gareth Bestor;Office:; Rm. 1306 Computer Science & Statistics, 1210 W. Dayton St.;Office Hours:; Wed 7:45 - 8:45 am, Fri 11:00 - 1:00 pm or by appointment;Phone:; (608) 262-6601 [office]; (608) 251-5193 [home, emergencies only];E-mail:; bestor@cs.wisc.edu (click here for finger);World-Wide-Web:; http://www.cs.wisc.edu/~bestor/bestor.html; Grading Policy;Your final grade is based on four programming assignments each worth 25% (not including Program #0). This course is Pass/Fail only. You must complete and hand in all five assignments to be eligible to pass the course. There are no tests or exams.; 100% - Assignments (4 @ 25% each);Click here to see a list of the current class grades for Section 1 (identifed by student ID only).;Click here to see a list of the current class grades Section 2 (identifed by student ID only).; Syllabus (tentative);The following topics and sections of the text will be approximately covered each week during the semester. You will only get the most out of this class if you read the relevant sections of the text before coming to class. This way you will be able to ask questions in class about anything that you are unsure of, instead of waiting until you're in the lab trying to work on an assignment to discover you didn't really understand something.;Weeks 1-8; Text and Lecture Notes;Text:;Fortran with Engineering Applications, 5th. edition, by E. Koffman and F. Friedman, 1993.;Lecture Notes:;Copies of the lecture notes will be available on-line at the end of each week of class. Important - the on-line lecture notes are not a substitute for coming to class and only cover what I show on the overhead projector. They do not include any examples or additional notes that I put on the board. You are responsible for all the material covered in class.;Week 1;Week 2;Week 3;Week 4;Week 5;Week 6;Week 7;Week 8; Programming Assignments;There are four programming assignments each contributing 25% to your final grade. You must attempt to complete every programming assignment. If you hand in a program that does not run or will not even compile without errors then it will not be graded and will automatically receive a zero grade and you risk failing the course.;Gradesheets;Handin Directory (how to hand in assignments online); Late Policy;Policy on Academic Misconduct (i.e. cheating);Assignment Specifications:;Program #0 (handed out in class), due Wednesday 3/27/96, 8:50 am; Program #1, due Monday 4/8/96, 8:50 am; Program #2, due Friday 4/19/96, 8:50 am; Program #3, due Wednesday 5/1/96, 8:50 am; Program #4, due Friday 5/10/96, 1:00 pm;How to Get Help with Your Assignments:;Consultants:; The consultants in the computer lab can help you with most problems. They wear name tags and are on duty from approximately 8:00 am to 11:00 pm. Consultants can answer short questions about compiler error messages and program syntax, as well as how to login, use the printers, send E-mail, run Netscape, etc.;Click here for more information about the consultants.;;Instructor:; General questions about an assignment or questions that may require a long explanation are best answered by myself. Please see me during office hours or send me E-mail. I am not normally in my office except during office hours because I do my dissertation research from home via a modem. Therefore, if you want to see me outside of office hours please make an appointment first. You can most easily contact me by E-mail because I regularly login and read my E-mail from home.;Click here to send me E-mail.;; Problem Solving Exercises;One of the most important skills you will learn in this class is problem solving. Good problem solving skills distinguish a ""good"" computer programmer from a ""bad"" one - it doesn't matter how familiar or skilled you are in a particular programming language, if you do not understand how to solve the problem then you will not be able to write a computer program for it in any language.;To help you learn problem solving skills and techniques I will assign weekly problem solving exercises. These will be small but non-trivial problems which I will give out each Monday. You should look at the problem and think about it during the week and right down the steps you would go through to solve the problem; i.e. the overall structure of your program. This is primarily an exercise in general problem solving so you do not have to write any FORTRAN code (though you may if you want to and have time) and your solution/algorithm should not even be dependent on a particular programming language such as FORTRAN. We will go over the solution in class the following Monday.;Exercises:;Week 2: Question 16, Pg. 89. Click here for the solution.; Week 3: Question 4, Pg. 147. Click here for the solution.; Week 4: Question 13, Pg. 218. Click here for the solution.; Week 5: Question 6, Pg. 269. Click here for the solution.; Week 6: Question 10, Pg. 329 (subroutines) - click here for the solution; Question 11, Pg. 330 (functions) - click here for the solution.; Week 7: Question 8, Pg. 401. Click here for the solution.; Computer Lab;You will be using the Vectra lab in Rm. 1350 Computer Science & Statistics containing Hewlett-Packard Vectra's running Microsoft Windows and Microsoft FORTRAN. This lab is open from 7:00 am to 1:00 am seven days a week except certain holidays. The printer room is located across the hall in Rm. 1359.;You may also use your home or dorm computers to write your programs, however you will probably have to purchase your own copy of Microsoft FORTRAN or Lahey Personal FORTRAN (see the inside cover of the textbook). You may also work in any of the other computer labs on campus, however most do not have FORTRAN compilers (please see me first before using the CAE lab).;The software you will be using in the lab includes:;Microsoft Windows and MS-DOS;E-mail;Netscape; Other Pointers of Interest; CS 110 Home Page; Gareth Bestor's Home Page; Computer Sciences Department Home Page; Starting Points for Internet Exploration; Lycos (search the World-Wide-Web by keyword);; Dilbert (comic relief for those long nights before an assignment is due);Copyright &copy 1996 Gareth S. Bestor (bestor@cs.wisc.edu). Last modified May 1, 1996.;"
"CS 302 Section 70 Home Page;CS 302 Algebraic Language Programming;Section 70 (FORTRAN);This section is taught entirely in the FORTRAN programming language and is intended primarily for engineering students and non-computer science majors. Click here for a course description.;Menu; IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENTS - READ NOW!; Lectures; Instructor; Grading Policy; Syllabus; Text and Lecture Notes; Exams and Programming Assignments; Problem Solving Exercises; Computer Lab; Other Pointers of Interest; Lectures;Section 70: 103 Psychology, 9:55 am MWF;; Please be punctual to lectures to avoid disturbing the class.; Instructor - Gareth Bestor;Office:; Rm. 1306 Computer Science & Statistics, 1210 W. Dayton St.;Office Hours:; Wed 7:45 - 8:45 am, Fri 11:00 - 1:00 pm or by appointment;Phone:; (608) 262-6601 [office]; (608) 251-5193 [home, emergencies only];E-mail:; bestor@cs.wisc.edu (click here for finger);World-Wide-Web:; http://www.cs.wisc.edu/~bestor/bestor.html; Grading Policy;Your final grade is based on seven programming assignments each worth 5% (not including Program #0) and three exams. Your highest two exam scores will each contribute 25% to your final grade; your lowest exam score will contribute 15%. You must complete and hand in all the assignments to be eligible to receive a passing grade for the course. Final grades for all CS 302 sections are graded on a curve with a mean in the range of 2.8 - 3.0, where A = 4.0; the curve is computed after the final exam is completed.;Exam 1; Thur February 29, 7:15 - 9:15 pm; Exam 2; Wed April 10, 7:15 - 9:15 pm, Rm. 1207 Computer Science; Final; Mon May 13, 7:55 - 9:45 am;Click here to see a list of the current class grades (identifed by student ID only).; Syllabus (tentative);The following topics and sections of the text will be approximately covered each week during the semester. You will only get the most out of this class if you read the relevant sections of the text before coming to class. This way you will be able to ask questions in class about anything that you are unsure of, instead of waiting until you're in the lab trying to work on an assignment to discover you didn't really understand something.;Weeks 1-6 (Mid-Term Exam #1); Weeks 7-11 (Mid-Term Exam #2); Weeks 12-15 (Final Exam); Text and Lecture Notes;Text:;Fortran with Engineering Applications, 5th. edition, by E. Koffman and F. Friedman, 1993.;Lecture Notes:;Copies of the lecture notes will be available on-line at the end of each week of class. IMPORTANT - the on-line lecture notes are not a substitute for coming to class and only cover what I show on the overhead projector. They do not include any examples or additional notes that I put on the board. You are responsible for all the material covered in class.;Week 1;Week 2;Week 3;Week 4;Week 5;Week 6;Week 7;Week 8;Week 9;Week 10;Week 11;Week 12;Week 13;Week 14;Week 15; Exams and Programming Assignments;There are three exams: two mid-term exams and one final exam. Exams constitute 65% of your final grade so it is very important to do well on them to ensure a good grade, regardless of your performance on the assignments. All exams are approximately two hours long (though you may stay a bit longer if you need extra time) and are closed-book. You only need to bring a pen or pencil to exams - calculators are not necessary or even useful.;Exam Solutions:;Mid-Term Exam #1;Mid-Term Exam #2;There are seven programming assignments (not including Program #0) each contributing 5% to your final grade. All the assignments must be completed and handed in to be eligible to receive a passing grade for the course. You must attempt to complete every programming assignment. If you hand in a program that does not run or will not even compile without errors then it will not be graded and will automatically receive a zero grade and you risk failing the course.;Gradesheets;Handin Directory (how to hand in assignments online); Late Policy;Policy on Academic Misconduct (i.e. cheating);Assignment Specifications:;Program #1, due Monday 2/12/15/96, 9:55 am; Program #2, due Friday 2/23/96, 9:55 am; Program #3, due Wednesday 3/6/96, 9:55 am; Program #4, due Wednesday 3/27/96, 9:55 am; Program #5, due Friday 4/12/96, 9:55 am; Program #6, due Monday 4/29/96, 9:55 am; Program #7, due Friday 5/10/96, 1:00 pm;How to Get Help with Your Assignments:;Consultants:; The consultants in the computer lab can help you with most problems. They wear name tags and are on duty from approximately 8:00 am to 11:00 pm. Consultants can answer short questions about compiler error messages and program syntax, as well as how to login, use the printers, send E-mail, run Netscape, etc.;Click here for more information about the consultants.;;Instructor:; General questions about an assignment or questions that may require a long explanation are best answered by myself. Please see me during office hours or send me E-mail. I am not normally in my office except during office hours because I do my dissertation research from home via a modem. Therefore, if you want to see me outside of office hours please make an appointment first. You can most easily contact me by E-mail because I regularly login and read my E-mail from home.;Click here to send me E-mail.;; Problem Solving Exercises;One of the most important skills you will learn in this class is problem solving. Good problem solving skills distinguish a ""good"" computer programmer from a ""bad"" one - it doesn't matter how familiar or skilled you are in a particular programming language, if you do not understand how to solve the problem then you will not be able to write a computer program for it in any language.;To help you learn problem solving skills and techniques I will assign weekly problem solving exercises. These will be small but non-trivial problems which I will give out each Monday. You should look at the problem and think about it during the week and right down the steps you would go through to solve the problem; i.e. the overall structure of your program. This is primarily an exercise in general problem solving so you do not have to write any FORTRAN code (though you may if you want to and have time) and your solution/algorithm should not even be dependent on a particular programming language such as FORTRAN. Each Friday we will go over the solution in class.;Exercises:;Week 3: Question 16, Pg. 89. Click here for the solution.; Week 4: Question 4, Pg. 147. Click here for the solution.; Week 5: Question 13, Pg. 218. Click here for the solution.; Week 6: Question 6, Pg. 269. Click here for the solution.; Week 7: Question 10, Pg. 329 (subroutines) - click here for the solution; Question 11, Pg. 330 (functions) - click here for the solution.; Week 8: Question 5, Pg. 559. Click here for the solution.; Week 9: Question 8, Pg. 401. Click here for the solution.; Week 10: Question 6, Pg. 467. Click here for the solution.; Week 11: Question 5, Pg. 467. Click here for the solution.; Week 12: Question 3, Pg. 466. Click here for the solution.; Week 13: Question 5, Pg. 655.; Computer Lab;You will be using the Vectra lab in Rm. 1350 Computer Science & Statistics containing Hewlett-Packard Vectra's running Microsoft Windows and Microsoft FORTRAN. This lab is open from 7:00 am to 1:00 am seven days a week except certain holidays. The printer room is located across the hall in Rm. 1359.;You may also use your home or dorm computers to write your programs, however you will probably have to purchase your own copy of Microsoft FORTRAN or Lahey Personal FORTRAN (see the inside cover of the textbook). You may also work in any of the other computer labs on campus, however most do not have FORTRAN compilers (please see me first before using the CAE lab).;The software you will be using in the lab includes:;Microsoft Windows and MS-DOS;E-mail;Netscape; Other Pointers of Interest; CS 302 Home Page; Gareth Bestor's Home Page; Computer Sciences Department Home Page; Starting Points for Internet Exploration; Lycos (search the World-Wide-Web by keyword);; Dilbert (comic relief for those long nights before an assignment is due);Copyright &copy 1996 Gareth S. Bestor (bestor@cs.wisc.edu). Last modified April 24, 1996.;"
"Kevin Beyer's Home Page;Kevin S. Beyer;beyer@cs.wisc.edu.;(caution: men at work...);Graduate Student and Research Assistant;Department of Computer Sciences;University of Wisconsin - Madison;1210 West Dayton Street;Madison, WI 53706 USA;(608) 262-6607;Advisor: Raghu Ramakrishnan;Area of Interest:;Database Research;Research Projects:; Coral;C.O.D. (local only);Course Information:;; Projects;; Graduate Courses;; Undergraduate Courses;Instructing:;CS 302;(beyer@cs.wisc.edu);Mon May 23 20:07:07 CDT 1994;"
"Todd M. Bezenek's Home Page;Todd;M.;Bezenek;Back when the 6502 was introduced, RAM was actually faster than; CPUs...; -- From _Great Microprocessors of the Past and Present_ at; www.cs.uregina.ca/~bayko/cpu.html .; ``Windows NT is an express locomotive squeezed into a; skateboard-sized package...''; -- Helen Custer in _Inside Windows; NT_, Microsoft Press, 1993.;Current Courses; CS 736: Advanced Operating Systems with; Bart Miller.;;pithy adj \'pith-e\ 1 : consisting of or abounding in pith;;CS 899: Taking the ``Yeah, but what's the point?'' out of; skewed-associative caches.;Access Information; Computer Sciences Department; University of Wisconsin; 1210 West Dayton Street; Madison, WI 53706; Office: CS&S 1304; Phone: (608) 262-6601; Fax: (608) 262-9777; Home phone: (608) 238-6390; E-mail:;; bezenek@cs.wisc.edu;bezenek@cs.wisc.edu;"
"Nathan Bockrath - Graduate Student;Nathan Bockrath; Teaching Assistant; Graduate Student; Average Joe; A picture of Nate. 23Kb, jpeg; To send me EMail click here:;bockrath@cs.wisc.edu; My CS 132 D Sections;Both Sections are held in B204; Section 301: 7:45 am - 8:45 am MWF; Section 302: 8:50 am - 9:50 am MWF;GRADES; QUIZ REVIEWS;Virus Info; The Word Macro Virus; How to make WWW Pages; Office Hours: In CS 3310; (Where is 3310, Anyway?); Monday; 10:00 am - 11:00 am; Wednesday; 10:00 am - 11:00 am; My Schedule; Distributed;Systems; 1:00 pm - 2:15 pm; MWF in CS 1263; Simulation;and Modeling; 2:25 pm - 3:40 pm; MWF in CS 1325; SUPPORT FREE SPEECH ONLINE!!!; For more Info go to this Site.;;Back to the CS 132 D;Home Page;Back to the CS Department;Home Page;Other Neat Stuff; The Condor Project;The Internet Oracle;Send Comments To:;bockrath@cs.wisc.edu;"
"Bolo;Bolo;Greetings! I'm Bolo, although my parents;christened me Josef Thomas Burger when I rolled from the ways.;Call me;bolo... everyone, including my parents, does!;I'm not quite sure who I am or what I do; here's the best;explanation I've developed so far.;In many ways the question who is a person is defined by;what that person does.;In my case, I'm a software engineer who develops semi-real-time;operating systems and utilities.;I've been doing that for the last 5 years.;Before that, I was a BSD Kernel Hacker and Unix system Administrator.;I create things, and that's why I'm an engineer.;An engineer applies science to the design and construction of ""things"",;and that's what I do.;You can't really call me a scientist, though I have a;Computer Sciences degree.;I'm more of ... a Mad Scientist!!!;The guy who pays me, David DeWitt,;(who is a scientist) shudders at my methodology.;On the other hand, I'm right most of the time.;It works for me, eh?;When I'm not designing, architecting, and implementing new;operating system type things, I'm often doing the same;to other things.;Some of those other things are my FORTH system, Woodworking,;Home Control, Drawing, and Brewing Beer.;To completely relax, try sleep -- it works wonders!;But sleep is not enough, although my;roommate disagrees with me.;Other pursuits which I enjoy are;flying, reading science fiction,;comic books, railroading (both prototype and model), and;role playing games.;You may notice images of the most sublime striped creature, the;Tiger in appearing throughout my WWW pages.;Tiger has taken me for his own.;William Blake's poem;Tyger! Tyger!;puts words to the wonder of Tiger.;On the Road Again;In a tremendous leap of insanity :-) I've purchased a;house!;The address of my new place is;Josef T. Burger;6301 East Gate Road;Monona, WI 53716-3910;The new voice number is 608-223-0486.;Boring Work;Work at work drives me bananas.;It used to be fun, but now it's a grunge.;Either I've matured, or the jobs has changed over the years, perhaps;some of both.;It seems like we get new parallel computers every other;month, and I have to beat them into;submission, while doing everything else under the sun, moon, and;stars.;I'm currently working on the following projects for;Dave DeWitt, a world-;(in)famous database hacker!;Gamma: A parallel relational database.;OQL: An SQL-like query interpreter for object stores.;Paradise; A Geographic Information System implemented with Shore.;Shore: An object-oriented data store.;WiSS: The WIsconsin Storage System.;And whatever else needs to be done!;All this, and a whole lot more, occurs at the;Computer Sciences Department;of the;Madison Campus;of the;University of Wisconsin.;The campus is located in Madison, WI (USA) on a peninsula between;two of Madison's five lakes.;Not so boring work;In addition to my work for the UW, I also consult.;I don't provide solutions, but rather advice and technical;expertise.;Helping out Internet Providers, porting software to new;systems, reviving old computers, and other oddball tasks;are the kinds of things I do.;I'd tell you to;visit my web server;but I haven't had time to do anything there, so it's mostly;empty, except for the home pages of some friends.;Other activities;Uwvax;I operate the uwvax Usenet News;and UUCP site in my free time. ""All the news thats fit to;print"", or something along those lines. uwvax,;a CS department computer, has been part of Usenet, UUCP,;and the internet for longer than I've worked here.;Along the same lines, I am also the Computer Sciences Department's;volunteer news master.;Much of that goes hand-in-hand with running uwvax.;However, trying to take care of 3 or 4 news readers across 5 or 6 different;architectures is a trying task.;I don't have much time to take care of that software.;Organizations;I am a member of the following organizations.;I don't always agree with what they do, but they often;have a lot of good benefits, for both members and other users;of their communities.;AOPA (the Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association).;EAA (the Experimental Aircraft Association).;Usenix Association.;Blitz-Drinking;When I was in school a horde of friends;and myself visited a local pub every Thursday night.;This place, The Essen Haus, imports beers from all over the world.;Slowly we worked our way through their entire selection.;Over the years we've developed new acquaintances, and many;of them became part of our loftily-labelled;Blitz Drinking Society.;We're rather diverse ... some of the members don't drink!;We meet once a year at the Essen Haus during the time of;Octoberfest to have a weekend of fun.;Chud has accumulated;a short history and whatnot;of this charade.;Bolo's Home Page;Last modified:;Tue Apr 2 23:31:48 CST 1996;Bolo (Josef Burger);<bolo@cs.wisc.edu>;"
"Brad's Home Page; Welcome!; Brad Thayer's Homepage; Not much here yet...;Mail Me!; Some links...;A link to the UW Computer Sciences Home Page .;How about the cs 640 Intro to Networking Home Page?;Or possibly the cs 736 Advanced Operating Systems Page?;It would be foolish to neglect the cs 737 Computer Systems Modeling Page!;You may be interested in thecs 132 Using Computers Home Page!;You'll probably be bored, but check out the UW-CS Operating Systems Seminar;anyway.; J'aime beaucoup boire le café et le Dr. Pepper.;Badgers and Packers page;Some other links...;Web Search with Altavista Search Engine;Find Email Adresses World-Wide;The UW Jazz Page;Duane McLaughlin's Home Page;UW Athletics Home Page;"
"Scott Breach's Home Page;Scott Breach (breach@cs.wisc.edu);Addresses;Education;Research Interests; Publications; Recreation; Associates;Addresses;Scott Breach;Department of Computer Sciences;University of Wisconsin - Madison;1210 West Dayton Street;Madison, WI 53706 USA;Tel: (608) 262-6618;Fax: (608) 262-9777;Education;Ph.D.;M.S.;(Computer Science) University of Wisconsin - Madison, 1992;B.S.;(Computer Engineering) Carnegie Mellon University, 1990;Advisor;Guri Sohi;Research Interests;Computer Architecture;Multiscalar;Publications;Multiscalar Processors;Gurindar S. Sohi, Scott E. Breach, T.N. Vijaykumar;22nd International Symposium on Computer Architecture, 1995.;The Anatomy of the Register File in a Multiscalar Processor;Scott E. Breach, T.N. Vijaykumar, Gurindar S. Sohi;27th International Symposium on Microarchitecture, 1994.;Efficient Detection of All Pointer and Array Access Errors;Todd M. Austin, Scott E. Breach, Gurindar S. Sohi;Conference on Programming Language Design and Implementation, 1994.;Recreation;Wings;Beer;Squid;TV;Associates;Todd Austin;Doug Burger;Babak Falsafi;Alain Kagi;T.N. Vijaykumar;Last Updated: September 1, 1996 by Scott Breach (breach@cs.wisc.edu);"
"Sridevi's Home Page;My home !;;Sridevi Bhamidipati;University of Wisconsin-Madison;Computer Sciences Department;1210, W. Dayton Street, #1351;Madison, WI 53706;;Office: 608-263-1938;;bsri@cs.wisc.edu;Spring Courses;CS 764;CS 752;TA Info --;CS 577;Office: 1351 CS & S;Hours: W 11:00-12:30;Optional Problem Sessions;My bookmarks;"
"i bleed in nontrivial ways;here is my temporarily-understated page...;my unadorned cs302 page that i provide for section 63.;the 1306 Pizza Pool page.;a brief bio on me.;my hobbies page.;My schedule for Spring 1996;Here are my stinkin' bookmarks.;SUNY-Albany Fall 1996:;I have the poor sod, the unfortunately named ""***** ******"" in my;class. A hypersensitive rockjock cretin who broods, glares, clenches;fist and cracks knuckle at ""MR ******"", or a tragically flighty;femme-man who has been getting razzed and asskicked since the third;grade -- or perhaps a smooth-skinned hardbody leatherboy who leers at;me whenever I call the roll? What difference does it make, since today;I giggled a bit when I said his name and in doing so became a;prostitute to society's bigotries -- my pedagody was my Isaac but the;black goat refused to stay his clawed hand. F**K!;SSSUUUHHH MMUUUHHHH DDDDUUUUUHHHHH MMMMUUUHHHH MAAAAHHHJAAAAAAHHHHH!;FFFUUUHHHHH YYYYYYYUUUUUHHHHH MMMMMUUUUUHHHHHMMMMUUUHHHHH!;UUUHHH UUUMMMM UUUHHHH WWWWWHHHHUUUUUHHHHH!;SUNY-Albany Fall 1995:;If I hit Mr. Zhang with my car, I wouldn't notice.;If I hit Mr. Eggleston with my car, I'd smile.;"
"CS 302 Fall 1996 - Section 63;CS 302 Fall 1996 - Section 63;Algebraic Language Programming - C++;Name: Dave Eggleston;Email: burnett@cs.wisc.edu;Office: CS&St 1306;Office Phone: (608)262-6601;Office Hours: M 3:00-4:00 F 11:30 - 12:30;ANNOUNCEMENTS: updated Nov 10, 19:30;Note: The original output on the prog6 page had two errors in it;(the days of the week were off by one.) The correct values are now there.;Information about Exam 2 - updated Nov 10;Questions Asked about Program 6;HourlyWorker Class;Reading: Scan through 9.1 for Thursday's class.;Program 6 is now available.;Solution to Quiz 3.;Grades Page is here.;General Course Information;CS 302 Home Page;Course Objectives;Vectra Lab;CS 302 Consultants;Syllabus;Working from Home;Class ""Handouts"";Grades;Homework;Exams and Quizzes;Miscellaneous Archive;Policy Information;Email Policy;Grading Policy;Late Policy;Academic Misconduct Policy;Text;Problem Solving;with C++ - The Object of Programming by Walter Savitch;Addison-Wesley Publishing Company, 1996.;List of known errata;Last modified:;Wed Aug 28, 1996, Dave Eggleston;(burnett@cs.wisc.edu);Based on Greg Sharp's cs302 home page;"
"Pei Cao' Home Page; Pei Cao (cao@cs.wisc.edu);Assistant Professor of Computer Science;Department of Computer Sciences;University of Wisconsin - Madison;1210 West Dayton Street;Madison, WI 53706 USA;cao@cs.wisc.edu;Phone: 608-262-2252;Departmental Office: 262-1204;Fax: 608-262-9777; Education; Research Interests; Courses; Recent Papers; Recent Talks; Summary; My Collection of Links; Education:; Ph.D. Princeton University, 1996.; M.S. Princeton University, 1992.; B.S. Tsinghua University, Beijing, China, 1990.; Research Interests:;Operating systems, high performance file systems, memory resource allocation;;High performance I/O systems for parallel computers;;Research Projects:;Optimal Parallel Prefetching and Caching;ACFS: Application Controlled File Caching and Prefetching; Courses:;CS739: Research Topics in Distributed Systems and Operating Systems (Fall 1996);CS736: Advanced Operating System (Spring 1996); Traces and Simulators:; File Access Traces;Recent Papers;Integrated Parallel Prefetching and Caching;Tracy Kimbrel, Pei Cao, Anna Karlin, Ed Felten, and Kai Li,;Princeton CS Department Tech Report TR-502-95, November 1995. A shorter;version is in the Proceedings of 1996 SIGMETRICS Conference.;Application Controlled File Caching and Prefetching (PhD thesis)Also Princeton CS Department Tech Report TR-522-96.;;Implementation and Performance of Integrated Application-Controlled Caching, Pre;fetching and Disk Scheduling;Pei Cao, Edward W. Felten, Anna Karlin and Kai Li. CS-TR-94-493, Princeton;University. To appear in ACM TOCS.;;A Study of Integrated Prefetching and Caching Strategies;Pei Cao, Edward W. Felten, Anna Karlin and Kai Li. CS-TR-94-479, Princeton;University. Proceedings of SIGMETRICS/Peformance '95.;;Implementation and Performance of Application Controlled File Cache.;Pei Cao, Edward W. Felten, and Kai Li. CS-TR-94-462, Princeton University,;1994. Proceedings of the First OSDI Symposium, 1994.;Here are the;slides of the presentation at OSDI94.;;Application-Controlled File Caching Policies.;Pei Cao, Edward W. Felten, and Kai Li. Proceedings of the USENIX Summer 1994;Technical Conference.;;The TickerTAIP Parallel RAID Architecture.;Pei Cao, Swee Boon Lim, Shivakumar Venkataraman, and John Wilkes.;Proceedings of ISCA 93.;Recent Talks;Slides for ""Application Controlled File Caching and Prefetching"";;Postscript of Page 26 and;Postscript of Page 46.;Research Summary;My research focuses on I/O and storage management in uniprocessor and;parallel systems. In particular, I am investigating two techniques to improve;file system performance: application-specific replacement policies for the file;cache, and aggressive prefetching of file data from the disk. I have;developed a system in which the kernel allocates physical pages to individual;applications, and each application is responsible for deciding how to use;its physical pages for caching and prefetching. The system uses a fair;global allocation policy in the kernel, and carefully integrates cache;replacement, prefetching and disk scheduling. A prototype implementation;on uniprocessor systems has demonstrated;that good application-chosen replacement strategies and prefetching information;can significantly improve the I/O performance of many applications.;Currently, I am extending these techniques to parallel systems. I am;developing integrated caching and prefetching algorithms for parallel disk;arrays. In addition, I am investigating the global resource management;problems in operating systems.;Last modified: Wed Apr 24 21:38:49 1996 by Pei Cao;cao@cs.wisc.edu;"
"CS736 Spring 1996; CS 736: Advanced Operating Systems (Spring 1996); Summary;This course is intended to give you a broad exposure to advanced;operating systems topics.;There are two important components of this course: reading and discussion of;various research papers, and a project involving implementation of an;experimental system. The research papers cover topics;including synchronization and communications, memory management, file systems,;protection and security, and distributed systems. The project requires you to;choose a problem, research and propose solutions, and implement a;prototype system.; Lecture Info;During each class, we will discuss topics relevant to the current papers.;The lecture will not be a detailed review of the papers, but rather;a discussion of major topics and themes using the papers as a focal point.;Active participation in discussion is strongly encouraged.;Lecture: 11:00 - 12:15 Tuesday and Thursday, 2255 Engineering Hall;Office Hour: 2:00 - 3:00pm Tuesday, or by appointment; 7361 Computer Sciences; Text;Our text is a selection of ``classic'' papers;(from the 60's to the 90's) on operating system design and implementation.;You can purchase these readings at the DoIT (formerly MACC) documentation desk;for about $20.;The readings this semester are different from those of previous semesters;;so please do buy a copy of these papers.; Grading;There is no exam in this course. Instead, there are two assignments.;The first assignment is using a benchmark suite to measure the performance;of various operating systems (SunOS, Solaris, Linux, Windows, etc., as many;as you can lay your hands on).;The second assignment is the project, involving a project proposal,;implementation, a final report, and a project presentation.;Of the total grade, class participation counts 10\%, the first assignment;counts 20\%, and the project counts 70\%.; Schedule;Here is a tentative schedule.; Projects;Here is a list of suggested projects.;You can make up your own project as well.;In either case, you need to come and discuss with me before choosing a project.;Teams of two or more people are allowed.; Slides;Here are the slides I used in my lectures.; Assigments;Here is the first assignment.;"
"Lei Cao's HomePage;Welcome to Lei Cao's Home Page;About Me; I am a first-year graduate student in the Computer Science Department here at University of Wisconsin-Madison. Originally from Shanghai, China, I studied at Shanghai Jiao Tong University before I came to the States. (Any SJTU alumni out there?); Currently, I am a lab consultant for CS 302 and also TA for CS 736. Life is no longer as easy as last semester, just like the weather in Wisconsin. I am taking three classes and in the mean time doing a master project. Here is my current schedule.;my resume;Contact Info; Home Address: 2016 Kendall Ave. #2, Madison, WI 53705; Home Phone: (608)231-1560; Office: 1308 CS&S Bldg., 1210 West Dayton St., Madison; Office Phone: (608)262-6002; E-mail: caol@cs.wisc.edu;Interesting Links;Entertainment;Computer Related;Miscellany; ESPN Sportszone; TV Tonite; ACM SIGMOD; ACM SIGCOMM; CS Technical Report Search Engine; Wide Area Technical Report Service; Microsoft Library; CND Server; Yahoo; Info on Stocks and Funds; Internet Yellow Pages and; White Pages;This home page has been visited times since;2/22/1996.;Last Updated on Feburary 22, 1996.;"
"Mike Carey;Michael J. Carey;Professor (on leave);Computer Sciences Department;University of Wisconsin-Madison;1210 West Dayton Street;Madison, WI 53706;Research Staff Member;IBM Almaden Research Center;650 Harry Road, K55-B1;San Jose, CA 95120-6099;Phone: (408) 927-1732;Primary Fax: (408) 927-4304;Alternate Fax: (408) 927-3215;E-mail: carey@almaden.ibm.com;carey@cs.wisc.edu;Research Interests;Database management systems, parallel and distributed computing,;applied performance evaluation.;My research interests lie in two main areas: database system performance;and next-generation database systems. In the performance area, topics;of current interest include performance tradeoffs and techniques for;object-oriented database systems, design and evaluation of algorithms;related to transaction processing, and scheduling of complex multi-user;database workloads based on user-specified performance goals.;In the next-generation database system area, I have been involved in the;EXODUS extensible DBMS project; I am now involved in SHORE, a project aimed;at developing a scalable repository for the storage and sharing of persistent;objects in a heterogeneous environment. The goal of the SHORE effort, which;is building upon experience from the EXODUS project, is to meet the object;management needs of (and to replace the use of Unix files in) applications;such as CAD/CAM and CASE.;Most recently, I have moved from academia to industry. After twelve great;years as a part of what's become the best academic database systems research;group in the known universe, the time has come for me to tackle some new and;different challenges. I am now working at the IBM Almaden Research Center (the;source of a number of of the papers that I've been teaching to my students for;the past twelve years). My IBM work will be related to objects and databases,;with a significant fraction of my time being spent on a relatively new project;there called Garlic. Garlic is an effort to build a heterogeneous multimedia;information system that allows data living in a variety of repositories to;be queried and manipulated as though it resided in one, homogeneous, object;database. I spent 1993-94 on sabbatical at IBM working on Garlic, continued;to work on it in Madison in 1994-95 (focusing, with a graduate student, on a;query/browser front-end tool called PESTO), and am once again working on the;Garlic project ""on location"" at IBM Almaden.;Recent Publications; ""Extending SQL-92 for OODB Access: Design and Implementation Experience"";(with J. Kiernan), Proc. of the ACM Int'l. Conf. on Object-Oriented;Programming Systems, Languages, and Applications (OOPSLA), Austin, TX,;October 1995, to appear.; ""Querying Multimedia Data From Multiple Repositories By Content:;The Garlic Project"" (with W. Cody, L. Haas, W. Niblack, M. Arya, R. Fagin,;M. Flickner, D. Lee, D. Petkovic, P. Schwarz, J. Thomas, M. Tork Roth,;J. Williams, and E. Wimmers), Proc. IFIP Working Conference on Visual;Database Systems, Lausanne, Switzerland, March 1995.; ""Towards Heterogeneous Multimedia Information Systems: The Garlic;Approach"" (with L. Haas, P. Schwarz, M. Arya, W. Cody, R. Fagin, M. Flickner,;A. Luniewski, W. Niblack, D. Petkovic, J. Thomas, J. Williams, and;E. Wimmers), Proc. 1995 IEEE Workshop on Research Issues in Data;Engineering (RIDE-95), Taipei, Taiwan, March 1995.; ""A Status Report on the OO7 OODBMS Benchmarking Effort"" (with;D. DeWitt, C. Kant, and J. Naughton), Proc. of the ACM Int'l. Conf. on;Object-Oriented Programming Systems, Languages, and Applications,;Portland, OR, October 1994.; ""Towards Automated Performance Tuning for Complex Workloads"";(with K. Brown, M. Mehta, and M. Livny), Proc. of the 19th;Int'l. Conf. on Very Large Data Bases, Santiago, Chile,;September 1994.; ""Making Real Data Persistent: Initial Experiences with SMRC"" (with;B. Reinwald, S. Desslock, T. Lehman, H. Pirahesh, and V. Srinivasan),;Proc. of the Persistent Object Systems Workshop, Tarascon,;Provence, France, September 1994.; ""Shoring Up Persistent Applications"" (with D. DeWitt, M. Franklin,;N. Hall, M. McAuliffe, J. Naughton, D. Schuh, M. Solomon, C. Tan,;O. Tsatalos, S. White, and M. Zwilling, Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD;Int'l. Conf. on Management of Data, Minneapolis, MN, May 1994.; ""Fine-Grained Sharing in a Page Server OODBMS"" (with M. Franklin and;M. Zaharioudakis), Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Int'l. Conf. on Management;of Data, Minneapolis, MN, May 1994.; ""Managing Memory for Real-Time Queries"" (with H. Pang and M. Livny),;Proc. of the ACM SIGMOD Int'l. Conf. on Management of Data,;Minneapolis, MN, May 1994.; ""Accurate Modeling of the Hybrid Hash Join Algorithm"" (with J. Patel and;M. Vernon), Proc. of the ACM SIGMETRICS Conf. on Measurement and Modeling;of Computer Systems, Nashville, TN, May 1994.; ""Indexing Alternatives for Multiversion Locking"" (with P. Bober),;Proc. of the Int'l. Conf. on Extending Database Technology,;Cambridge, England, March 1994.; ""Client-Server Caching Revisited"" (with M. Franklin), in;Distributed Object Management, M. Oszu, U. Dayal, and;P. Valduriez, eds., Morgan-Kaufmann Publishers, 1994.;"
"Chin, Chin Tang's Home Page;Chin, Chin Tang;Graduate Student; University of Wisconsin CS Department;1210 West Dayton Street;Madison, Wisconsin USA 53706;Office: CS Bldg Rm 3310;E-mail: cchin@cs.wisc.edu;Telephone: (608) 262-1721;Current TA assignment;CS367 - Introduction; to Data Structures; Office Hours: Monday 9:30-10:30am / Tuesday 2:30-3:30pm / Friday 9:30-10:30am;Education:;;MS Biochemistry, University of Wisconsin - Madison, 1996;BS Biochemistry, University of Wisconsin - Madison, 1994;cchin@cs.wisc.edu;"
"Trishul Chilimbi's Home Page; Trishul Chilimbi (chilimbi@cs.wisc.edu);Click here for the real me;Graduate Research Assistant;Department of Computer Sciences;University of Wisconsin - Madison;1210 West Dayton Street;Madison, WI 53706 USA;Advisor: Jim Larus;Research Interests:;Programming Languages, Compilers & Architectures for Parallel Computing; Compiling for integrated shared-memory & message-passing; Parallel program performance analysis & enhancement via Visualization; Shared-memory parallel computer design;Research Projects:; Wisconsin Wind Tunnel;Education:; M.S. University of Wisconsin-Madison, 1993.; B.Tech. Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay, 1992.; Research Summary; Publications;Cachier: A Tool for Automatically Inserting CICO Annotations,;Trishul M. Chilimbi and James R. Larus;(International Conference on Parallel Processing (ICPP), August, 1994).;StormWatch: A Tool for Visualizing Memory System Protocols;Trishul M. Chilimbi, Thomas Ball, Stephen G. Eick and James R. Larus;(Supercomputing '95, To appear, December 1995).; Awards and Honors;Certificate of Merit, 1987, 10th in the State Mathematics Olympiad;Presidents Gold Medal, 1988, top 25 in the Indian National Physics Examination;Certificate of Merit, 1988, 1st in the State Examination in Chemistry;Certificate of Merit, 1988, 1st in the State Examination in Electronics; Miscellaneous; Click here for a movie of me (I can dream, can't I?); Curriculum Vitae;; Last Updated: May 12, 1994;E-mail suggestions for this page to chilimbi@cs.wisc.edu;"
"CS 110;Introduction to Computer Programming;Computer Sciences 110;Fall 1996;This is a one-credit course designed to cover the basic programming;structures needed to prepare the students for CS310 and elementary;engineering courses. The material covered will be sufficient to enable;the student to write simple programs to solve engineering problems in;elementary courses.;The material in CS 110 is essentially the same as the first half of CS 302.;List of fall sections:; Lecture 1 (FORTRAN), Jeff Lampert; Lecture 2 (FORTRAN), Jeff Lampert; Lecture 3 (C++), Tony D'Silva; Lecture 4 (C++), Tony D'Silva; Lecture 5 (C++), Sidney Hummert; Lecture 6 (C++), Sidney Hummert; Lecture 7 (C++), Michael Birk; Lecture 8 (C++), Michael Birk; Lecture 9 (C++), Sidney Hummert; Lecture 10 (C++),Sidney Hummert; Lecture 11 (C++), Tony D'Silva; Lecture 12 (C++), Tony D'Silva; Lecture 13 (C++), Russell Manning; Lecture 14 (C++), Russell Manning; Lecture 15 (C++), Martin Reames;Last modified: Wed Sep 4 11:29:13 1996 by Anthony D'Silva;"
"CS 132, Fall 1996; Search the CS 132 web pages for keywords (returns all matching paragraphs):;News;; Once you set up your class account, NEVER LEAVE YOUR; COMPUTER WITHOUT EXITING FROM WINDOWS. When you exit from; windows, you automatically exit from your account, too. If you don't; do as instructed, the next person starting using the computer; you've just abandoned has complete control over your account.; They can send messages signed with your name, read your mail, copy, or even; delete your personal work. Remember to exit windows when you're; done working for the day, or when you plan to leave your machine; unattended for some time.;; The email address you get when you initialize your account is; provided to you by the Computer Sciences department and is; different from the one provided by DoIT. You will have the account; for CS 132 only during this semester; after the end of the course the; account will be canceled. As long as you are a UW student, the email; account that DoIT provides will be active. Look for messages and; announcements for CS 132 in your Computer Sciences account.;Midterm exam answer key;Instructor;Professor Ed Desautels;Office: 5375 Computer Sciences;Office hours: 12-1 Monday-Wednesday, or by appointment.;Phone: 262-7971; dept office 262-1204;E-mail: ed@cs.wisc.edu;Teaching Assistants;Follow these links to your TA's home page...;Name:Kelly Ratliff;Email:kelly@cs.wisc.edu;Office #:3360 CS&S;Office phone:262-9275;Office hours:MW 3:30-4:30;132 sections:304, 305;GRADES;Name:Nathan Bockrath;Email:bockrath@cs.wisc.edu;Office #:3310 CS&S;Office phone:262-1721;Office hours:MW 10:00-11:00;132 sections:301, 302;GRADES;Name:Rehnuma Rahman;Email:rehnuma@cae.wisc.edu;Office #:1349 CS&S;Office phone:262-5340;Office hours:M 11:00-12:00,W 12:30-1:30;132 sections:317, 318;GRADES;Name:Jaime Fink;Email:jfink@cs.wisc.edu;Office #:1306 CS&S;Office phone:262-6601;Office hours:TR 10:45-11:45;132 sections:315, 316;GRADES;Name:Ashraf Aboulnaga;Email:ashraf@cs.wisc.edu;Office #:3310 CS&S;Office phone:262-1721;Office hours:MW 4:00-5:00;132 sections:319, 320;GRADES;Name:Andrew Geery;Email:geery@cs.wisc.edu;Office #:1301 CS&S;Office phone:;Office hours:R 2:30-4:30;132 sections:303, 304;GRADES;Name:James Herro;Email:jherro@cs.wisc.edu;Office #:1301 CS&S;Office phone:;Office hours:WF 12:30-1:30;132 sections:305, 310;GRADES;Name:Abhinav Gupta;Email:agupta@cs.wisc.edu;Office #:3360 CS&S;Office phone:262-9275;Office hours:MF 9:30-10:30;132 sections:322, 323;GRADES;Name:Jyothi Krothapalli;Email:jyothi@cs.wisc.edu;Office #:3310 CS&S;Office phone:262-1721;Office hours:MW 10:00-11:00;132 sections:306, 307;GRADES;Name:Su-Hui Chiang;Email:suhui@cs.wisc.edu;Office #:6384 CS&S;Office phone:262-6619;Office hours:R 4:00-5:00;132 sections:321;GRADES;Name:Thanos Tsiolis;Email:tsiolis@cs.wisc.edu;Office #:6364 CS&S;Office phone:262-6615;Office hours:R 10:00 - 11:00;132 sections:309;GRADES;Explore the Web Further...;Companies Whose Software or Hardware We Will Use; Borland; Hewlett-Packard; IBM; Intel; Microsoft; Novell;Useful Links for Further Web Exploration;Lycos;Enormous Database of Web Sites.;Yahoo;Internet resources classified by categories. Has a lookup search.;The Virtual Tourist;Find W3 sites around the world by clicking on a world map.;The Mother of All BBS;Large Alphabetical List of Web Sites.;What's Hot and Cool on the Web;Lists of Especially Excellent Web Sites.;University of Wisconsin-Madison CS Home Page;This page was originally created and maintained by;Ben Teitelbaum and Thanos Tsiolis.;It was modified and now maintained by;Kelly Ratliff.;"
"CS 132, Fall 1996; Search the CS 132 web pages for keywords (returns all matching paragraphs):;News;; Once you set up your class account, NEVER LEAVE YOUR; COMPUTER WITHOUT EXITING FROM WINDOWS. When you exit from; windows, you automatically exit from your account, too. If you don't; do as instructed, the next person starting using the computer; you've just abandoned has complete control over your account.; They can send messages signed with your name, read your mail, copy, or even; delete your personal work. Remember to exit windows when you're; done working for the day, or when you plan to leave your machine; unattended for some time.;; The email address you get when you initialize your account is; provided to you by the Computer Sciences department and is; different from the one provided by DoIT. You will have the account; for CS 132 only during this semester; after the end of the course the; account will be canceled. As long as you are a UW student, the email; account that DoIT provides will be active. Look for messages and; announcements for CS 132 in your Computer Sciences account.;Midterm exam answer key;Instructor;Professor Ed Desautels;Office: 5375 Computer Sciences;Office hours: 12-1 Monday-Wednesday, or by appointment.;Phone: 262-7971; dept office 262-1204;E-mail: ed@cs.wisc.edu;Teaching Assistants;Follow these links to your TA's home page...;Name:Kelly Ratliff;Email:kelly@cs.wisc.edu;Office #:3360 CS&S;Office phone:262-9275;Office hours:MW 3:30-4:30;132 sections:304, 305;GRADES;Name:Nathan Bockrath;Email:bockrath@cs.wisc.edu;Office #:3310 CS&S;Office phone:262-1721;Office hours:MW 10:00-11:00;132 sections:301, 302;GRADES;Name:Rehnuma Rahman;Email:rehnuma@cae.wisc.edu;Office #:1349 CS&S;Office phone:262-5340;Office hours:M 11:00-12:00,W 12:30-1:30;132 sections:317, 318;GRADES;Name:Jaime Fink;Email:jfink@cs.wisc.edu;Office #:1306 CS&S;Office phone:262-6601;Office hours:TR 10:45-11:45;132 sections:315, 316;GRADES;Name:Ashraf Aboulnaga;Email:ashraf@cs.wisc.edu;Office #:3310 CS&S;Office phone:262-1721;Office hours:MW 4:00-5:00;132 sections:319, 320;GRADES;Name:Andrew Geery;Email:geery@cs.wisc.edu;Office #:1301 CS&S;Office phone:;Office hours:R 2:30-4:30;132 sections:303, 304;GRADES;Name:James Herro;Email:jherro@cs.wisc.edu;Office #:1301 CS&S;Office phone:;Office hours:WF 12:30-1:30;132 sections:305, 310;GRADES;Name:Abhinav Gupta;Email:agupta@cs.wisc.edu;Office #:3360 CS&S;Office phone:262-9275;Office hours:MF 9:30-10:30;132 sections:322, 323;GRADES;Name:Jyothi Krothapalli;Email:jyothi@cs.wisc.edu;Office #:3310 CS&S;Office phone:262-1721;Office hours:MW 10:00-11:00;132 sections:306, 307;GRADES;Name:Su-Hui Chiang;Email:suhui@cs.wisc.edu;Office #:6384 CS&S;Office phone:262-6619;Office hours:R 4:00-5:00;132 sections:321;GRADES;Name:Thanos Tsiolis;Email:tsiolis@cs.wisc.edu;Office #:6364 CS&S;Office phone:262-6615;Office hours:R 10:00 - 11:00;132 sections:309;GRADES;Explore the Web Further...;Companies Whose Software or Hardware We Will Use; Borland; Hewlett-Packard; IBM; Intel; Microsoft; Novell;Useful Links for Further Web Exploration;Lycos;Enormous Database of Web Sites.;Yahoo;Internet resources classified by categories. Has a lookup search.;The Virtual Tourist;Find W3 sites around the world by clicking on a world map.;The Mother of All BBS;Large Alphabetical List of Web Sites.;What's Hot and Cool on the Web;Lists of Especially Excellent Web Sites.;University of Wisconsin-Madison CS Home Page;This page was originally created and maintained by;Ben Teitelbaum and Thanos Tsiolis.;It was modified and now maintained by;Kelly Ratliff.;"
"CS132 Using Computers - Lectures 3 & 4;CS132 - Using Computers;Instructor Info:;Instructor:; Sally Peterson;Office:; 5381 Computer Science;Phone:; 263-7763;E-Mail:;sally@cs.wisc.edu or slpeters@facstaff.wisc.edu;Office Hours:;Tuesday 10:45-11:45, Thursday 11:00-12:00 or by appointment;Vital Class Info:;Time:;TR 8:00 to 9:15 (Lecture 3);TR 9:30 to 10:45 (Lecture 4);Place:;All lectures held in 1800 Engineering Hall;Lecture Text:;Information Technology and Society by Laudon, Traver & Laudon;Lab Text:;Point, Click & Drag: Using the Macintosh by Peterson;Course Introduction:;This class is designed to take you from zero knowledge of computers;to being a crack shot user (and using these skills to get yourself through;college and into the job arena!). Our lab sections are taught using Macintosh;computers, but sections using PCs are available (see CS132;Using Computers - Lectures 1 &2).;The course has two components:;Part 1 - Lecture:;In the lecture we will discuss computers in ""generic"" terms,;i.e. general computer science topics. We will discuss how computers work,;including the following topics (not necessarily in this order):;application programs (including word processors, spreadsheets, graphics; and databases);hardware, input/output, storage devices;operating systems, programming languages;networks and telecommunications;artificial intelligence and expert systems;computer-related social issues;Part 2 - Lab:;In the laboratory (discussion) sections you will have hands-on experience;on Macintosh IIci computers with the following programs:;word processing (MS Word 5.0);electronic mail, newsgroups, and World Wide Web (Eudora 3.0 and; Netscape 3.0);painting and drawing (Aldus SuperPaint 3.0);spreadsheet and charting (MS Excel 5.0);database (FileMaker);presentation manager (HyperCard 2.1);desktop publishing (Aldus PageMaker 4.0);An integral part of lab is learning the Macintosh operating system (System;7.5.3) as well.;In addition, there are some special tools (CD-ROM and scanners) available.;There are 10 TAs that teach the lab sections. Both the TAs and I have the;goal of providing you with high quality instruction and a rich educational;experience.;TAs:;Name;Section;Time;Days;Jon Bodner;358;6:10;MW;Nick Leavy;338;340;3:30;11:00;MW;TR;Shannon Lloyd;354;356;5:20;6:40;TR;TR;Jeff Reminga;331;357;7:45;4:50;MWF;MW;Ira Sharenow;351;352;1:00;2:30;TR;TR;Brian Swander;335;336;12:05;1:20;MWF;MWF;Brad Thayer;333;334;9:55;11:00;MWF;MWF;Joe Varghese;339;355;9:30;8:00;TR;TR;Geoff Weinberg;337;353;2:25;4:00;MWF;TR;Maria Yuin;332;359;8:50;7:30;MWF;MW;Recommended Background:;No background is necessary for this course.;Assignments, Quizzes and Exams:;Your grade will be based on two exams from lecture, and on regular assignments;and quizzes in lab.;Syllabus:;To glance at the syllabus (which contains all nitty-gritty class details),;click here.;Assignments:;Assignment 3: SuperPaint;Assignment 4: Excel;Last modified: October 13, 1996 by Jon;Bodner;"
"CS132 Using Computers - Lectures 3 & 4;CS132 - Using Computers;Instructor Info:;Instructor:; Sally Peterson;Office:; 5381 Computer Science;Phone:; 263-7763;E-Mail:;sally@cs.wisc.edu or slpeters@facstaff.wisc.edu;Office Hours:;Tuesday 10:45-11:45, Thursday 11:00-12:00 or by appointment;Vital Class Info:;Time:;TR 8:00 to 9:15 (Lecture 3);TR 9:30 to 10:45 (Lecture 4);Place:;All lectures held in 1800 Engineering Hall;Lecture Text:;Information Technology and Society by Laudon, Traver & Laudon;Lab Text:;Point, Click & Drag: Using the Macintosh by Peterson;Course Introduction:;This class is designed to take you from zero knowledge of computers;to being a crack shot user (and using these skills to get yourself through;college and into the job arena!). Our lab sections are taught using Macintosh;computers, but sections using PCs are available (see CS132;Using Computers - Lectures 1 &2).;The course has two components:;Part 1 - Lecture:;In the lecture we will discuss computers in ""generic"" terms,;i.e. general computer science topics. We will discuss how computers work,;including the following topics (not necessarily in this order):;application programs (including word processors, spreadsheets, graphics; and databases);hardware, input/output, storage devices;operating systems, programming languages;networks and telecommunications;artificial intelligence and expert systems;computer-related social issues;Part 2 - Lab:;In the laboratory (discussion) sections you will have hands-on experience;on Macintosh IIci computers with the following programs:;word processing (MS Word 5.0);electronic mail, newsgroups, and World Wide Web (Eudora 3.0 and; Netscape 3.0);painting and drawing (Aldus SuperPaint 3.0);spreadsheet and charting (MS Excel 5.0);database (FileMaker);presentation manager (HyperCard 2.1);desktop publishing (Aldus PageMaker 4.0);An integral part of lab is learning the Macintosh operating system (System;7.5.3) as well.;In addition, there are some special tools (CD-ROM and scanners) available.;There are 10 TAs that teach the lab sections. Both the TAs and I have the;goal of providing you with high quality instruction and a rich educational;experience.;TAs:;Name;Section;Time;Days;Jon Bodner;358;6:10;MW;Nick Leavy;338;340;3:30;11:00;MW;TR;Shannon Lloyd;354;356;5:20;6:40;TR;TR;Jeff Reminga;331;357;7:45;4:50;MWF;MW;Ira Sharenow;351;352;1:00;2:30;TR;TR;Brian Swander;335;336;12:05;1:20;MWF;MWF;Brad Thayer;333;334;9:55;11:00;MWF;MWF;Joe Varghese;339;355;9:30;8:00;TR;TR;Geoff Weinberg;337;353;2:25;4:00;MWF;TR;Maria Yuin;332;359;8:50;7:30;MWF;MW;Recommended Background:;No background is necessary for this course.;Assignments, Quizzes and Exams:;Your grade will be based on two exams from lecture, and on regular assignments;and quizzes in lab.;Syllabus:;To glance at the syllabus (which contains all nitty-gritty class details),;click here.;Assignments:;Assignment 3: SuperPaint;Assignment 4: Excel;Last modified: October 13, 1996 by Jon;Bodner;"
"CS302 Home Page;Computer Sciences 302;Algebraic Language Programming; Sections and Instructors;We would like your comments, suggestions, or complaints about CS302.;Feedback may be provided by clicking;here.; - Jim Skrentny, CS302 Coordinator, Office: CS1303, 262-0191,; Email skrentny@cs;Information for All Sections;CS 302 Frequently Asked Questions;Course Overview;Microcomputer Laboratories;Consultants -; Fall 1996 Consulting Schedule;Tutors (mainly C++);Policy on Academic Misconduct;Courses; Offered by CS Department;Software for All Sections;Introduction to; Microsoft Windows;Hints for Windows; Compilers;The Windows; Operating System;Email;Netscape;Creating and Using Subdirectories;C++ Information;The Savitch Text Book;Introduction to Borland C++;The C++ language;The; Borland C++ integrated development environment;Fortran Information;See Jeff Lampert's home page for; Section 70.;Last Updated: Fri 8/30/96, Jim Skrentny CS302 Coordinator, skrentny@cs.wisc.edu;"
"CS302 Course Info;Course Information for CS302;Course Description;From the Guidebook for Undergraduate Students, May 1994:;; Construction of algorithms; problem solving; instruction and experience; in the use of at least one procedure-oriented language (e.g., Pascal; or Fortran); survey of other such languages, advanced programming; techniques. Prereq: Advanced high school mathematical preparation or; some college work in mathematics, statistics or logic; or consent of; instructor. Open to Fr.;<; cs302 home page >;"
"CS302 Home Page;Computer Sciences 302;Algebraic Language Programming; Sections and Instructors;We would like your comments, suggestions, or complaints about CS302.;Feedback may be provided by clicking;here.; - Jim Skrentny, CS302 Coordinator, Office: CS1303, 262-0191,; Email skrentny@cs;Information for All Sections;CS 302 Frequently Asked Questions;Course Overview;Microcomputer Laboratories;Consultants -; Fall 1996 Consulting Schedule;Tutors (mainly C++);Policy on Academic Misconduct;Courses; Offered by CS Department;Software for All Sections;Introduction to; Microsoft Windows;Hints for Windows; Compilers;The Windows; Operating System;Email;Netscape;Creating and Using Subdirectories;C++ Information;The Savitch Text Book;Introduction to Borland C++;The C++ language;The; Borland C++ integrated development environment;Fortran Information;See Jeff Lampert's home page for; Section 70.;Last Updated: Fri 8/30/96, Jim Skrentny CS302 Coordinator, skrentny@cs.wisc.edu;"
"CS310 Home Page; Problem Solving using Computers - Fall 1996; Computer Sciences 310;Check the following pages for information on CS310.;; Instructors and teaching assistants including office hours.;; Information on; assignments including suggestions, copies of assignments, and; explanations about grading.; Check the; policy on assignments, doing your own work, etc.;; Information on; examinations and copies of past exams.;; Information on; labs including copies of the handouts.;;; Documents including a syllabus.;; Many of the documents on these web pages are in postscript.; If you need a postscript viewer, you can obtain one from the; CS ftp site. Check the local services section of the; CS department home page.; Under local services, go to the FTP web page, and then to the; ghost directory. Read the README file for further directions.;"
"CS310 Home Page; Problem Solving using Computers - Fall 1996; Computer Sciences 310;Check the following pages for information on CS310.;; Instructors and teaching assistants including office hours.;; Information on; assignments including suggestions, copies of assignments, and; explanations about grading.; Check the; policy on assignments, doing your own work, etc.;; Information on; examinations and copies of past exams.;; Information on; labs including copies of the handouts.;;; Documents including a syllabus.;; Many of the documents on these web pages are in postscript.; If you need a postscript viewer, you can obtain one from the; CS ftp site. Check the local services section of the; CS department home page.; Under local services, go to the FTP web page, and then to the; ghost directory. Read the README file for further directions.;"
"CS 367 - Lecture 2;CS 367-2Introduction to Data StructuresFall 1996;Course email address:; cs367-2@cs.wisc.edu;Course home page:; http://www.cs.wisc.edu/~cs367-2/cs367.html;INSTRUCTOR:;Yannis Ioannidis;Office: 7357 Computer Sciences;Office hours: Tuesday 8:45-9:30 am / Thursday 8:45-9:30 am;Office phone: 263-7764;Email address:; yannis@cs.wisc.edu;Home page:; http://www.cs.wisc.edu/~yannis/yannis.html;Contents; News; Teaching Assistants; Lecture Information; The C++ Language; Text; Grading; Exams; Course Schedule; Assignment 0; Programming Assignments; Late Policy; Cheating; Help; Program Grading; Style; External Documentation; Internal Documentation; Using Unix and Vi; The Program Development Cycle;News;Assignment 3;Assignment 3;is now ready.;Midterm Statistics;Some interesting exam statistics for Section 2: max: 98, min: 22,;median: 78, mean: 77.92;Old Midterm;A sample old;midterm is now available to help you in your preparation for our own;midterm.;Assignment 2;Assignment 2;is now ready.;Notes on O-notation and Binary Search;The notes on O-notation;and Binary Search;are now available.;If you want to print either one of them, open the File;menu from the (Ghostview) window that shows you the document, and;choose the ``Print...'' menu item.;Women In Computer Science;Some female faculty, graduate students, and undergraduates have;formed a group called WICS (Women In Computer Science). One;of the group's goals is to encourage more women to become;computer science majors. So if there are any women in this;class who would like to talk to someone about majoring in;computer science, or doing graduate studies in computer science,;or if there are any women who would like some extra help with;their classwork, they should see Suzan (a computer;science grad student) during her office hours or email her to;make an appointment.;Suzan's e-mail address is: stodder@cs.wisc.edu;and her office hours are Tuesday & Thursday 1:30-2:30 in room 1345.;Assignment 1;Assignment 1;is now ready.;Out of Town;The first week of classes I will be out of town at the VLDB Conference.;Jim Larus will give the lectures for me. I will be in class;September 10th.; Teaching Assistants;Both people listed below are teaching assistants (TAs) for the course.;They will be grading your homework assigments and will be happy to answer;questions about the assignments, or any other aspect of the course that;is giving you trouble.;Note that TAs are not assigned to specific sections.;Chin Tang Chin;Office: 3310 Computer Sciences;Office hours: Monday 9:30-10:30am / Tuesday 2:30-3:30pm / Friday 9:30-10:30am;Office phone: 262-1721;Email address:; cchin@cs.wisc.edu;Home page:; http://www.cs.wisc.edu/~cchin/cchin.html;Wei Zhang;Office: 1343 Computer Sciences;Office hours: Wednesday 10:00-11:00am / Thursday 9:00-10:00am / Sunday 3:00-4:00pm;Office phone: 262-5596;Email address:; weiz@cs.wisc.edu;Home page:; http://www.cs.wisc.edu/~weiz/weiz.html; Lecture Information;Lecture: 9:30 - 10:45 Tuesday and Thursday;1325 Computer Sciences and Statistics; The C++ Language;CS 367 will be taught using the C++ programming;language, and you will be required to do your programming assignments;in C++.;We didn't choose C++ just to make your life more difficult.;Most people who become fluent in C++ think it is far superior to C or;Pascal; the use of C++ is growing tremendously in the field and the;odds are that if you ever have to write another program after this;course ends, you will be able to write it in C++. (The same statement;is not true about Pascal. C is also widely available, but after an;initial startup period you will be more productive in C++ than in C.);If you go on to take more computer science courses, with few exceptions;you will be required to use C++ in those courses.;Text;The text book for this course is;Data Abstraction and Problem Solving with C++: Walls and Mirrors;by Frank M. Carrano (ISBN # 0-8053-1226-9).;This is a well-written text that covers most;(but not all) of the material in this course.;It also includes a lot about C++, so a separate text for the language is not;necessary.;For my lectures I will often (but not always) be following;;CS 367 Lecture Notes - Fall 1993;by David J. DeWitt.;These notes are actually considerably more complete that simple lecture;notes, but they are still short of a true text book (there is;very little narrative text, no exercises, etc.);As a recommended additional source, you may want to purchase these notes, which;are available from the DoIT documentation desk near the Dayton Street entrance;of the Computer Sciences building (1210 W. Dayton St).;If this is the first experience with Unix for you, you will need;some information about activating your account, logging in, creating, editing,;and manipulating files, and compiling, running, and debugging programs.;The handout;CS 1000, available from the DoIT information desk (where the DeWitt notes;are available), contains all the key information.;You will find it invaluable.;See also the help section below.;As I mentioned above, the lectures will often follow the DeWitt notes, although;I may supplement them with a few handouts during the course;of the semester.;Nonetheless,;You are responsible for all material covered in lecture!;The exams will be based on;the lecture material, reading assignments in the notes, and;the course assignments.;Grading;There will be one or two evening exams during the course of the semester,;a final exam and five programming assignments.;The exams will determine 50% of the final grade;(with approximately equal weight for each one), and the programming;assignments will count for 10% each.; Exams; Exam 1; Tuesday, October 22nd, 7:15pm-9:15pm, 1351 Chemistry.; Exam 2; TBA; Final Exam; Wednesday, December 18th, 5:05pm-7:05pm, place TBA; Course Schedule;The following is the list of topics that will be covered in this;course. A more detailed scheduled will be provided later.;semester.;TOPIC DEWITT'S; NOTES WALLS AND MIRRORS;===========================================================================;Introduction, Administration 1-42 (general familiarity);Basic stuff of C++ lecture #2 101-135, App A, App C;---------------------------------------------------------------------------;Functions lecture #3 App A;Pointers lecture #4 141-150, App A;---------------------------------------------------------------------------;Records & dynamic storage lecture #5 141-150, App A;Lists lecture #6 150-177;---------------------------------------------------------------------------;Lists lecture #6 150-177;Binary Search and O notation 83- 86, 393-405;---------------------------------------------------------------------------;Advanced Lists lecture #7 177-189;Advanced Lists lecture #7 177-189;---------------------------------------------------------------------------;Stacks lecture #8 249-295;Queues lecture #9 307-344;---------------------------------------------------------------------------;Hashing lecture #10 591-608;Hashing lecture #10 591-608;---------------------------------------------------------------------------;Recursion (Evening Exam) lecture #11 50- 93, 203-238;Trees lecture #12 439-468, 501-502;---------------------------------------------------------------------------;Trees lecture #12 439-468, 501-502;Binary Trees - Sort & Search lecture #13 468-500;---------------------------------------------------------------------------;AVL Trees 587-590;AVL Trees 587-590;---------------------------------------------------------------------------;Graphs lecture #16 620-646;Graphs lecture #16 620-646;---------------------------------------------------------------------------;Graphs lecture #16 620-646;Graphs lecture #16 620-646;---------------------------------------------------------------------------;Sorting lecture #17 405-432;THANKSGIVING;---------------------------------------------------------------------------;Sorting lecture #17 405-432;Sorting lecture #17 405-432;---------------------------------------------------------------------------;To be announced;Assignment 0;This is an;absolute necessity to get a grade other than F!;Bring in a photograph of you.;It should not be your picture from your 1st birthday, nor;should it be the one from that boy/girl scout trip in the summer;of 1984.;Other than that, it can be color or black-and-white, any size, etc.;No grade will be given without a photo!;Programming Assignments;Proficiency in a programming language (Pascal, C, C++, or FORTRAN);at the introductory level is assumed; the equivalent UW-Madison prerequisite;course is CS 302.;Assignments must be done in C++ on the designated machines. These;are in the machine rooms on the first floor of the;CS building. I encourage you to use these machines.;If you prefer to use a home computer, you may do so, with certain;restrictions: You must have a C++ compiler on your home machine;;you must log on to your university account often to read email;and get copies of data files; finally, we will require that;you turn in your C++ program electronically (via email) so if you;work at home you must make provisions to download your programs to;your university account and to make sure that they compile and run;with the g++ compiler on the SPARCstations.;I often use electronic mail to notify students of changes in;assignments, hints for programs, etc.;I assume that you will read all;electronic mail that I send.;Late Policy;No late assignment will be accepted.;Assignments must be turned in exactly when they are due.;In order to avoid lateness caused by machine loads, coincident due;dates for several classes, etc., simply be sure to get started right away on;each assignment.;Things are certain to go wrong now and then, so don't wait until the;last minute to start.;Any exceptions must be approved by me, and you will need a very good excuse.;If you get into trouble, see me as soon as possible.;Cheating;The Computer Science department takes a very hard line;stance on cheating.;You are welcome to;communicate with each other on design of algorithms and data;structures, but;there is to be no sharing of code.;You are also expected to learn, understand, and obey the;Computer Systems Lab Policies;governing your computer accounts.;Help;If you are having problems with the course work or programs,;please let me know as early in the semester as possible.;Office Hours Policies;If you need help debugging a program, the best way to get help is to;visit any one of the;CS 367 TA's;during his office hours, taking along a current;hard copy of your program.;My office hours are intended as a time for me to re-explain concepts;that I have presented in class but about which you are still confused,;or to answer your specific questions about course material.;I encourage you to use email as;a reliable way to contact me about any problems; I read and respond to email;several times daily, almost every day of the week.;Program Grading;Programs are graded on all of the following criteria.;Correctness: The program should behave correctly/normally on typical;input. The program should behave as stated in the project;specifications.;Clarity: The program should be easy to read and understand.;(See the notes on style below for more information;about clarity).;Robustness: Correct behavior in extreme or unusual situations.;The program should handle such situations in a reasonable and;logical manner (that is, it should not simply blow up).;Quality of test data: The test data for the program should;demonstrate all facets of the program's capabilities, including;unusual cases.;Efficiency: Avoid unnecessarily inefficient algorithms or constructs.;However, efficiency should never be pursued at the expense of clarity.;Modularity: The program should be modular and should make effective use;of parameters.;Completeness: You should incorporate all information into your;program; there should be no need for any sort of extra (paper);documentation.;Generality:;The program should be as general as possible, subject to consideration;of efficiency and clarity.;You should avoid arbitrary limitations (such as a bound on the size or;complexity of the input) whenever possible.;When limitations are necessary, they should be expressed as defined;constants near the top of the program so that they can be easily changed.;The only numeric literals that should appear in your program are those;values not very likely to change (such as 0, 1, or 3.1415926535).;Style;Use meaningful identifier names.;Use a consistent naming scheme for identifier names.;A suggested convention is as follows; int variable_name;; int function_name(int argument);; const int DEFINED_CONSTANT = 1234;; enum EnumType { VALUE1, VALUE2 };; class ClassName ...;Do not put multiple statements on a single line.;Skip lines between functional groups of code.;Use a clear and consistent indentation style (see the DeWitt notes;for a suggested style).;Indent continued statements (if, loops, ... etc).;Line up {'s and }'s.;Label }'s meaningfully (e.g. ``} // while (!done)'').;External Documentation;This should be included as a long comment at the beginning of your;program. It is addressed to both the typical user and to someone;who wants to know superficially how the program works:;Include your full name and student ID at the beginning of the comment.;Give a general description of what the program does.;Tell how to use the program: how to call it, format of data.;Give limitations, bugs, special features, and assumptions made.;Describe negative as well as positive aspects of the program.;If you don't include negatives we will assume you were unaware of them.;Information included in the assignment about the problem description;need not be repeated, but may be briefly summarized for the first point above.;A statement referring the user to the assignment document is then;sufficient. Note that this only applies to the problem description!;Internal Documentation;There are four main types of internal documentation:;Headers:;Comments at the headers of functions, classes, and major data structures;should describe their purpose, assumptions about their parameters,;and the main outline of any algorithms they use.;Declarations: Comments next to a declaration of a variable or data member;should provide extra information not conveyed by the identifier's;name.;The name of a variable should tell as much about it as is possible without;making it too long;;additional information can be supplied by a comment. For example; int top; // index of last element added to stack;You should use comments to explain parameters as well as local variables.;Within segments of code: Tricky or opaque sections of code should be;avoided, but sometimes they are necessary. In such cases, a comment;can help the reader understand what's going on.;Between segments of code: These comments clarify the top-level outline;of your algorithm.; Using Unix and Vi;Many people working with UNIX for the;first time will find that it takes some time to become;comfortable with it (this is particularly true if your;only previous programming experience is with Pascal using;MacPascal on a MacIntosh.) I strongly urge you to put in;the time early in the semester to become comfortable with;Unix. While this time may be painful, it is time well;spent.;Also, you may wish to attend a UNIX tutorial.;They will be held in rooms 1240 Comp Sci in two sessions on each of the;following days: TBA;You will want to pick up a copy of; CS 1000 before you go.; The Program Development Cycle;The program development cycle in a UNIX environment is:;for (;;) {; edit your program // %vi program.c; compile your program // %g++ -Wall -g program.c; if (there are compilation errors); continue;; run your program // %a.out < inputfile > outputfile; look at your output // %vi outputfile; // or %more outputfile; if (there are no errors); break;; if (you are too tired to continue) {; print a listing to take home; // pr program.c inputfile outputfile | lpr; goto home; }; debug the program; // gdb a.out; // run; // ...; // quit;};you're done! turn in the result; // submission instruction to be given out later; yannis@cs.wisc.edu;Mon Aug 19 17:28:14 CDT 1996;"
"CS 367; ;CS 367-3: Introduction to Data Structures;(http://www.cs.wisc.edu/~cs367-3/cs367.html, Revised 9/4/96);Fall 1996;James R. Larus; ;Instructor:;James Larus;larus@cs.wisc.edu;5393 Computer Sciences;262-9519;http://www.cs.wisc.edu/~larus/larus.html;Office hours: Tuesday 3-4 pm , Friday 11-12 am;Contents;Teaching Assistants;Text;Lecture Information;Electronic Mail;The C++ Language;Grading;Exams;Course Schedule;Assignment 0;Assignment 1;Assignment 2;Assignment 3;Programming Assignments;Course Objectives;CS367 has two objectives:;Present the concepts of data structures in general and some of the most widely used structures in detail. Data structures are the fundamental building;blocks of computer programs. By the end of the course, you should be able to identify situations in which a data structure is necessary, determine the;requirements for the data structure, and select the appropriate data structure from those covered in this course.;Reiterate the concepts of structure programming, abstract data types, and modularity. These principles, which were introduced in CS302, are essential;to writing clear, correct, and maintainable software. As there is a close connection between abstract data types and data structures, this course places;a strong emphasis on applying these principles in all programming exercises.;Teaching Assistants;Wei Zhang and Chin Tang Chin are the teaching assistants (TAs) for;this course (sections 2 and 3). They will grade your homework assignments;and will be happy to answer questions about the;assignments, or any other aspect of the course that is giving you trouble.;Wei Zhang;Office: 1343 Compuer Sciences;Office hours: Wednesday 10-11, Thursday 9-10, Sunday 3-4;Office phone: 262-5596;Email address: weiz@cs.wisc.edu;Chin Tang Chin;Office: 3310 Computer Sciences;Office hours: Monday 9:30-10:30am, Tuesday 2:30-3:30pm, Friday 9:30-10:30am;Office phone: 262-1721;Email address:; cchin@cs.wisc.edu;Home page:; http://www.cs.wisc.edu/~cchin/cchin.html;Text;The text book for this course is Data Abstraction and Problem Solving with C++: Walls and Mirrors by Frank M. Carrano (ISBN # 0-8053-1226-9).;This is a well-written, if a little long-winded, text that covers most (but not all) of the material in this course. It also includes background about C++, so a;separate text for the language is not necessary.;The lectures will often (but not always) follow David Dewitt's CS 367 Lecture Notes - Fall 1995. These notes are far more complete that simple lecture;notes, but they fall short of a true text book (they contain very little narrative text, no exercises, etc.). I am using these notes as a basis for my lectures; as;such, I feel free to skip portions and cover additional material. You may want to purchase these notes, which are available from the DoIT documentation;desk at the Dayton Street entrance of the Computer Sciences building (1210 W. Dayton St).;If this course is your first experience with Unix, you will need information about activating your account, logging in, creating, editing, and manipulating files,;and compiling, running, and debugging programs. The handout CS 1000, also available from the DoIT information desk, contains this crucial information.;(Also, see also the help section below.);Lecture Information;Tuesday and Thursday: 11:00 - 12:30 in 107 Psychology.;As mentioned above, lectures will often follow DeWitt's notes. Lecture attendence is strongly recommended as I will regularly present material that does not;appear in the textbook or lecture notes, but will be useful for the programming assignments and exams. Needless to say, You are responsible for all;material covered in lecture! The exams will be based on the lecture material, reading assignments in the notes, and the course assignments.;Electronic Mail;I often use electronic mail to notify students of changes in assignments, hints for programs, etc. I assume that you regularly read your electronic mail.;Grading;There will be one or two evening exams during the semester, a final exam and five programming assignments. The exams will determine 50% of the final;grade (with approximately equal weight for each one), and the programming assignments will count for 10% each.;The C++ Language;CS 367 will be taught using the C++ programming language, and programming assignments must be written in C++. If you do not know C++, you should;not be in this section of CS367. Jim Skrentny is teaching two sections of CS367 that cover C++ in addition to data structures. C++ is a large and complex;language; unless you are an experience programming (and even then), it is a difficult language to learn from a book.;There is also another WWW page with more information on the programming assignments.;Gdb;There is also a web page that describes the gdb program debugger.;Exams;Exam 1;Tuesday, Oct 22, 7:15-9:15pm, 1351 Chemistry.;Exam 2;TBA;Final Exam;Wednesday, December 18th, 5:05pm-7:05pm, place TBA;Course Schedule;The following is a rough outline of topics that will be covered in this course. A more detailed scheduled will be provided later.;Topic;Dewitt's Notes;Introduction & Administration;Basic stuff of C++ lecture #2;Functions lecture #3;Pointers lecture #4;Records & dynamic storagelecture #5;Lists lecture #6;Binary Search and O notation;Advanced Listslecture #7;Stackslecture #8;Queueslecture #9;Hashinglecture #10;(Evening Exam)lecture #11;Recursionlecture #12;Trees;Binary Trees - Sort & Searchlecture #13;AVL Trees;Graphslecture #16;(Evening Exam);Sortinglecture #17;TBA;Assignment 0;This is an absolute requirement to get a grade other than F! Turn in an index card with the following information:;Name and login name;Year in school (freshman, sophomore, ...);Previous CS courses;Previous programming experience;Recent photograph of you. It should not be your picture from your 1st birthday, nor from that boy/girl scout trip in the summer of 1984. It can be;color or black-and-white, any size, etc. No CS367 grades will be given without a photo!;Assignment 1;The first programming assignment is to write a simple abstract data byte for;a bounded integer sequence. The text of the assignment is;on-line.;Assignment 2;The second programming assignment is to write a program to maintain a database;of scores for a tennis tournament. The text of the assignment is;on-line.;Assignment 3;The second programming assignment is to write a program to produce a;concordance using hash tables. The text of the assignment is;on-line.;"
"CS513, Fall96: on-line handouts;CS513, Fall96: on-line handouts;The list of available files will grow up, as we progress with the material;and with the assignments. The site you are accessing here is a mirror;of the account;~amos/public/cs513. Thus, you may copy any file you find here without;entering the www, by typing:;cp ~amos/public/cs513/filename newfilename;with filename being the file you wish to copy, and;newfilename is the;name you wish to assign to that file in your account.; You may view each file in following list by clicking the redball icon;next to it.;email :=;A directory where all email messages to class are being stored.;as4.ps :=;Assignment # 4 , due November 11, 1995;mid_sam.ps :=;A 55-minute midterm exam given to cs513 students in FALL93.;as3.ps :=;Assignment # 3 , due October 23, 1995;as2.key :=;Comments on Assignment # 2.;as2.ps :=;Assignment # 2 (2 pages), was due October 07, 1996;as1.key :=;Comments on Assignment # 1.;as1.ps :=;Assignment # 1, was due September 20, 1996;geninfo.ps :=;General Information about the course. May be updated from time to time;during the semester.;viva_vi.ps :=;An advanced introduction to vi, written by Carl de Boor. Should not be regarded;as an official class handout.;grades :=;The most updated info concerning current grades in class;"
"cs520: Introduction to Theoretical Computer Science;cs520:;Introduction to Theoretical Computer Science; Fall 1996;; MWF 1:20pm, room 1325 cs;;lecturer:;Brian Cole;email:;tuc@cs.wisc.edu;office:;1309 cs;office hours:;Monday 2:15 - 3:15pm; Friday 12:15 - 1:15pm;teaching assistant:;David Sundaram-Stukel;email:;sundaram@cs.wisc.edu;office:;5364 cs;office hours:;Tuesday 3:00 - 4:00pm; Wednesday 9:30 - 10:30am; Thursday 3:00 - 4:00pm;text:;Introduction to Languages and the Theory of Computation,; John C. Martin, North Dakota State University, 1991, McGraw Hill,; ISBN 0-07-040659-6;; the tentative lecture schedule,; including exam information;; some lecture clarifications; the assignments page;;grading policy:;%25 written assignments; %40 mid-term examination; %35 final examination;; archive of the;; cs520 mailing list; cs520 Home Page / 1 September 1996 / Brian Cole;; &lt; UW-Madison Computer Sciences home page &gt; &lt; UW-Madison home page &gt;;"
"CS 525 (Also IE, MATH, STAT), Fall 1996; CS 525 (Also IE, MATH, STAT);Linear Programming;Fall 1996; Schedule; Lecture: 11:00 - 12:15 TR, 174 Mechanical Engineering; Open-Book Midterm Exam; Time & Date: 11:00 - 12:55 Thursday October 24, 1996; Location : 174 Mechanical engineering; Open-Book Final Exam; Time & Date: 12:25 - 2:25 Wednesday December 18, 1996; Location : TBA; Instructor:; Olvi L. Mangasarian; Office: 6393 Comp Sci & Stat; Pphone: 262-6593; E-mail: olvi@cs.wisc.edu; Office Hours: 2:30 - 4:30 Wednesdays (During Fall Semester); Teaching Assistant:; Yuh-Jye Lee; Office: 1307 Comp Sci & Stat; Telephone: 262-6602; E-mail: yuh-jye@cs.wisc.edu; Office Hours: MW 12:00-1:00; Textbook; Linear Programming with MATLAB , M. C. Ferris and O. L.;Mangasarian, Preliminary Version, DoIt, Madison, WI 1996.; Syllabus; Course Overview; Course Information;; Course Information;; Books on Reserve at Kurt Wendt Library;; MATLAB Setup;; Homework 1 (Due September 12, 1996);; Homework 2 (Due September 19 , 1996);; Homework 3 (Due September 24 , 1996);; Homework 4 (Due September 26, 1996);; Homework 5 (Due October 3 , 1996);; Homework 6 (Due October 8 , 1996);; Homework 7 (Due October 17, 1996);; Homework 8 (Due October ??, 1996);; Homework 9 (Due November ??, 1996);; Homework 10 (Due November ??, 1996);; Homework 11 (Due December ?, 1996);; Homework 12 (Due December ?, 1996);;; Programming Project (Due November 26, 1996);; Sample Midterm Exam of March 1993;; Solution to Sample Midterm Exam of March 1993;; Midterm Exam of March 1996;; Solution to Midterm Exam of March 1996;; Midterm Exam of October 1996;; Solution to Midterm Exam of October 1996;; Sample Final Exam of May 1993;; Final Exam of May 1996;; Solution to Final Exam of May 1996; Mathematical Programming at UW;; Home Page;; Courses; Relevant Web Sites;; Searchable Bibliographic Database of 15,000 Items;; Links to Various OR Sites;This page is updated periodically during the semester.;"
"CS 537 - Introduction to Operating Systems - Fall 1996;CS 537Introduction to Operating SystemsSection 1, Fall 1996;Instructor;Marvin Solomon;;office: 7397 Computer Sciences;office hours: 9:00 TR;office phone: 263-2844;email address:; solomon@cs.wisc.edu;TA;Rob Mellencamp;;office: 1349 Computer Sciences;office hours: 10-11 MWF;office phone: 262-5340;email address:; mellen@cs.wisc.edu; News; Watch this space for the latest updates.;Oct 31;The answers to the midterm exam;and a summary of the scores are now available.;A more detailed breakdown of the grade distribution;is also available.;Oct 27;The specification for;Project 4;is now avaiable.;Oct 21;The due date for Project 3 has been moved to Thursday, Oct 24.;A few typographical errors in the notes on; Deadlock Avoidance;have been corrected. Most importantly, the same array;was being called D in some places and M in others.;It is now called M in all places.;By popular demand, an old midterm exam is;available for you to look at.;Warning:;You should take this example with a large grain of salt.;The exam is from a very long time ago when the course;used a different text and covered topics in a different order.;This semester's midterm will likely;be quite different.;Oct 15;The time and place for the Midterm exam have been determined.;It will be in room 1240 Comp Sci from 7:15 to 9:15 pm on October 23.;Oct 14;The specification for;Project 3;is now avaiable.;Oct 9;A discussion of the issues presented;in class to day is available.;Oct 8;A summary of the grades for project 1 are; available.;Oct 6;The electronic;hand-in directions for;program 2 have now been posted.;Oct 1;The procedure giveFork in Algorithm 2 of the;Project 2 specification;should contain a call to notify().;The web page has been corrected to show this.;Sept 26;I've fixed two more bugs in the;Project 2 specification,;one minor and one that is more important.;The first caused the Introduction paragraph to be slightly garbled.;Thanks to Jake Dawley-Carr for pointing this one out.;The second was a line omitted from the sample code for Algorithm I in the;Programming Details;section.;After you create a ThreadScheduler, you have to start it; ThreadScheduler sched = new ThreadScheduler();; sched.start();;This was specified correctly in the later section on the ThreadScheduler,;but not in the Details section. The Web page is now fixed.;Thanks to Liping Zhang for this one.;Sept 20;Test data files for;Project 2;are now available.;The directory;~cs537-1/public/src;contains three data files and a Java class for reading them.;The file;~cs537-1/public/src/Graph.java;contains the definition of the class;Graph;described in the project specification.;The file;~cs537-1/public/src/petersonCyclic.graph;contains the Peterson graph shown in the project specification;;As mentioned there, this initial placement of forks is not;acyclic.;The file;~cs537-1/public/src/petersonAcyclic.graph;contains the Peterson graph with an acyclic initial placement of forks.;The file;~cs537-1/public/src/star.graph;contains a ``star'' topology, with one central philosopher sharing;forks with each of nine others.;Sept 19;Todd Jenner pointed out two typos in the specification for Project 2; ``The 15 forks ... are the numbers 0 through 15.'';should read; ``The 15 forks ... are the numbers 0 through 14.'';and in eat(), MAXTHINK should be replaced by MAXEAT.;The;online version;has been corrected.;Thanks, Todd.;Sept 18;There was a mistake in the;Java tutorial notes; in the section on Strings.;In the two-argument version of String.substring(), the second argument;is the offset of the end of the substring, not the number of characters;in the string.;The notes have been corrected.;Thanks to Franco Tung Fai Chan for pointing this out.;Sept 17;We occasionally send urgent messages directly to a mailing list;of students registered for this course.;There is an;archive of all messages sent to this list on the web.;If you are not receiving these messages and think you should be, send;mail to solomon@cs.wisc.edu.;The specification for;Project 2;is now avaiable.;I have received a few requests for makefiles for Java.;There is a sample Makefile in;~cs537-1/public/src/Makefile.;Copy that file to the working directory where your Java source files are;(remember, you should use a separate directory for each project),;edit it as described in the comments in it, and then type make;to compile and run your program, or make classes to compile;without running.;Sept 13;Notes on handing in your assignment and simulating;preemptive multitasking for the Solaris computers;have been added here.;Sept 12;The;Java tutorial;is now finished (or about as finished as it's going to get).;In the section on;threads,;you will find some helpful hints on how to structure; project 1.;You should be aware that there is a weekly seminar on operating systems;and networking, meeting Mondays at 2:30.;The first seminar of the semester is Monday the 16th.;Check;the Colloquia and Seminars web page; for more details.;Sept 5;The Java Book is finally available at the;University Bookstore!;Sept 4;The beginnings of a;Java tutorial; are now available.;Sept 4;To use Java on CS Department Unix workstations, you must create a;file named .cshrc.local in your home directory containing one;line:; set path=($path /s/java/bin);To make the change take effect, either type; source .cshrc.local;or simply log out and log back in.;Sept 3;The specification for; project 1 is ready.;Sept 3;The Unix Orientation Sessions, for all new Unix users, are scheduled for;the following times:;Tues - Thurs, Sept 3 - 54 pm and 6pm, room 1221 CS;Mon - Thurs, Sept 9 - 124 pm, room 1221 CS;Last updated:;Wed Sep 4 14:10:06 CDT 1996;Contents; News; Summary; Lecture Information; Text; Projects; Grading; Course Schedule; Lecture Notes; Summary;CS 537 is intended as a general introduction to the techniques used;to implement operating systems and related kinds of systems software.;Among the topics covered will be;process management (creation, synchronization, and communication);;processor scheduling;;deadlock prevention, avoidance, and recovery;;main-memory management;;virtual memory management (swapping, paging, segmentation and page-replacement;algorithms);;control of disks and other input/output devices;;file-system structure and implementation;;and protection and security.; Lecture Information;Lecture: 11:00 - 12:15 Tuesday and Thursday, 1221 Computer Sciences;and Statistics;Discussion: 11:00 - 11:50 Wednesday, 107 Psychology;The discussion section is not ``optional'': it is at least as important as the;lectures.;The primary focus of the Wednesday meetings will be topics related to the;projects;(including introduction to the;Java;programming language), but time will also be available for answering any;questions you have regarding points raised in the the lectures or the;text.; Text; Required;Modern Operating Systems;by Andrew S. Tanenbaum,;Prentice Hall, 1992.; Strongly Recommended;The Java Programming Language;by Ken Arnold and James Gosling,;Addison Wesley, 1996.; Online References;Lots of additional helpful materials about Java are available on the WEB.;The following references have been collected locally for fast access.;The Java Tutorial;The Java Language Specification;Java API Documentation;Watch this spot for additional links to the web.; Projects;There will be five programming projects, all in the;Java;programming language.;Sun SparcStation workstations running the Solaris dialect of the Unix;operating system are provided for your use, but you may use any;computer to which you have access that implements the Java programming;language.;However, if you do not use the Computer Sciences Department's computers,;you will be responsible for transferring any required;data sets or software packages to your computer.;The first assignment will be an easy ``get acquainted'' exercise designed;to help you become familiar with the computing environment and the;Java language.;Subsequent projects will involve;process synchronization,;processor scheduling,;disk scheduling,;and file-system implementation.;On all but the first project, students will be required to work in pairs.;Both members of a pair will receive the same grade on a project.;Feel free to discuss projects with anyone, but;you must not share code with anyone but your partner.;Cheating will be vigorously punished.;Enough said!;Assignments are due at the beginning of class (11 a.m.) on the date;indicated.;Over the entire semester, you have;three late days;of credit.;You can use these late days on different assignments (e.g., one day on each;of three assignments) or all three days on one assignment.;Late days may not be used for the last assignment.; Why Java?;Most students taking this course will be familiar with C++ but not Java.;Why, then, did we choose Java?;There are several arguments in favor of it.;Java is a more congenial programming environment.;Runtime errors such as bad subscripts, null pointers,;and uninitialized variables cause exceptions caught by the language runtime;rather than mysterious crashes or random behavior.;Java Strings are much easier to use than char *;arrays. Garbage collected storage management is extremely handy.;And more!;Java is very trendy.;Java had caught on faster than any other new language in history.;Many of the reasons for Java's growing popularity have little to do with;the way we will use it in this course (we will discuss these issues in class),;but a byproduct of this course;will be knowledge of Java, which is becoming quite a marketable commodity.;Java has ``operating system'' features built in.;In particular, it is the first widely-used programming language with;language-level support for concurrency (threads) and synchronization;(monitors).;On the other hand, switching to a new programming language is always;a bit dislocating.;Fortunately, there are excellent resources are available to ease the;transition.;The Java Programming Language;by Arnold and Gosling is amazingly good.;It is neither an introductory programming primer (the authors assume you;already know how to program);nor a reference manual (although a;reference manual;is available online),;but a readable introduction to the language, which takes you all to the way;from getting started to everything you need to write quite sophisticated;programs in Java.;This book is available at the University Bookstore.;You are strongly encouraged to buy it.;We have also gathered a variety of;other resources together, including a nice;online tutorial;about Java programming, and;a reference manual;for the standard class libraries you will be using.; Grading;There will be a midterm and a final exam, each of which will count for 25%;of your grade.;The midterm will be in the evening of Wednesday, October 23;from 7:15 to 9:15 pm in room 1240, Computer Sciences and Statistics.;The final, as scheduled in the timetable, will be Tuesday, December 17;at 5:05 p.m.;The first programming project (getting started) will count for 2% of your;grade.;The remaining four projects will count for 12% each.; Course Schedule;The following schedule is tentative;;it may be updated later in the semester, so check back here frequently.;Sept 3 - 6; Introduction; Chapter 1;Sept 10 - Oct 8; Processes, Synchronization, Processor Scheduling; Chapters 2 and 6;Sept 17; Project 1 Due; Learning Java;Oct 10; Project 2 Due; Synchronization;Oct 10 - Nov 11; Memory Management and Virtual Memory; Chapter 3;Oct 22; Project 3 Due; CPU Scheduling;Oct 23; Midterm Exam;Room 1240 Comp Sci.;Nov 14 - Dec 5; I/O Devices, File Systems; Chapters 4 and 5;Nov 14; Project 4 Due; Disk Scheduling;Dec 10 - 12; Protection and Security; Sections 4.4 and 4.5;Dec 12; Project 5 Due; File Systems;Dec 17; Final Exam; Lecture Notes;Introduction; History; What is an OS For?; Bottom-up View; Top-Down View; Course Outline; Java for C++ Programmers; Processes and Synchronization; Using Processes; What is a Process?; Why Use Processes; Creating Processes; Process States; Synchronization; Race Conditions; Semaphores; The Bounded Buffer Problem;The Dining Philosophers;Monitors; Messages; Deadlock; Terminology; Deadlock Detection; Deadlock Recovery; Deadlock Prevention; Deadlock Avoidance; Implementing Processes; Implementing Monitors; Implementing Semaphores; Implementing Critical Sections; Short-term Scheduling;Memory Management; Allocating Main Memory; Algorithms for Memory Management; Compaction and Garbage Collection; Swapping;Paging;Disks; More to come ...;solomon@cs.wisc.edu;Thu Oct 31 16:24:20 CST 1996;Copyright © 1996 by Marvin Solomon. All rights reserved.;"
"CS 537-2 Fall 1996 Home Page;CS 537-2:;Introduction to Operating Systems;Fall 1996;Tuesdays and Thursdays, 1:00-2:15pm in CS 1325;Discussion: Fridays, 1:00-2:15pm in CS 1221;Your Hosts:; Mary;Vernon (Instructor);and;Karuna;Muthiah (TA);Welcome to the home page for CS 537-2.;NOTE: Thursday lecture and Friday discussion will be;interchanged on the following dates:;Oct 3-4, Oct 10-11, Nov 7-8, Dec 5-6.;What's New:;Solutions to Quiz #3.;Assignment #4. (11/7/96); Office hours and email; Textbook and other readings; Grading, Projects and Quizzes; Mail Archive;Approximate Schedule of Topics;Week of;Topics;Reading;Sep 3introduction;;concurrency: threads, address spaces, processesChapter;1, 2.1;Sep 10thread management;;cooperating threadsChapter 2.2, 2.3;Sep 17synchronization;;implementing mutual exclusioncont'd.;Sep 24semaphorescont'd.;Oct 1monitors; concurrency: summarycont'd;Oct 8deadlock; process scheduling;Chapter 6, 2.4;Oct 15memory management: protection, address translation;;caching and TLBsChapter 3;Oct 22demand paged virtual memorycont'd.;Oct 29REVIEW; survey of i/o systemsChapter 4;Nov 5file systems & disk management;;naming and directoriesChapters 4 & 5;Nov 12the hardware, os, compiler, language interface;;protection & securityTBA;Nov 19Java overview, language;;Java objects, core methodsTBA;Nov 26Java threads, security;;Thanksgiving (no class)--;Dec 3networks and distributed systems;;remote procedure call (RPC)Chapter 9;Dec 10distributed file systems;;global memory systems; REVIEWChapter 13;vernon@cs.wisc.edu;"
"CS 564 - Database Management Systems: Design and Implementation;CS 564;Database Management Systems: Design and Implementation;Course Information (Postscript version);What's New!; No class this Friday. Instead, we will have office hours at that time.; Assignment 3 due day changed to Nov. 8, this Friday; Assignment 3 FAQ (Text )(last updated Nov 5); Assignment 3 handout ( Postscript); Class Mailing List ( CS564-1); Solutions to Chapters' Exercises; Please DONT print them out; Solutions to all Chapters' Exercises ( Postscript);First Day Information; Overview; Prerequisites; Office Hours; Topics to be Covered; Grading; Important Dates; Important Policy Issues; The minibase; home page (Check here for details on Assignment 0!).;Assignments; Assignment 0 handout ( Postscript); Assignment 1 FAQ (;HTML )(last updated Sep 20); Assignment 1 handout ( Postscript); Assignment 2 FAQ ( HTML )(last updated Oct. 4); Assignment 2 handout ( Postscript); Last year's Midterm sample ( Postscript); The key to last year's Midterm ( Postscript);Using Sybase: Info at; UW and from Sybase;C++ Info/Help; Yahoo's entry of WWW C++ resources.;; C++ Tutorial;; GCC/G++ Info Tree;; GDB (debugger) Info Tree;; CS 302's ""The C++ language"" (under construction); 1994 C++ Assignment 1 Handout Not Graded, for C++ experience; A FAQ for 1994 Assignment;1;Other Handouts; Coding conventions.;Instructor; Raghu Ramakrishnan; Office: 7355 CS&S; Phone: 262-9759; E-Mail: raghu@cs; Office Hours: MW 12:30PM - 1:00PM;Lecture and Discussion; Lecture;; Time: MWF 11:00AM - 12:15PM; Place: 222 Ingraham;Teaching Assistants; Xuemei Bao; Office: 1345 CS&S; Phone: 262-1012; E-Mail: xbao@cs; Office Hours: 2:30PM - 3:30PM Tues and Thur;Last modified: Mon Sept.2 16:00:00 CDT 1996 by xbao;"
"CS564 Lecture 2 Home Page; Welcome to the home page for CS564-2. This page is (obviously);under construction; as the semester progresses we will be adding;information that you need to know to this page.; The most important thing to know now is that the class meeting;room has been changed. Currently we are meeting in 150 Russell Labs;for the TR lectures; the optional discussion on Friday has not been;moved so it is still in 103 Psychology.;Instructor; Jeff Naughton; Office: 7369 CS&S; Phone: 262-8737; E-Mail: naughton@cs; Office Hours: F 8:15AM - 9:45AM;Teaching Assistant; Tim Jung; Office: 1308 CS&S; Phone: 262-6602; E-Mail: tjung@cs; Office Hours: 4:00PM - 5:00PM Monday; 2:30-3:30 Wednesday.;Lecture and Discussion; Lecture;; Time: TR 11:00 - 12:15; Place: 150 Russell Labs; Discussion (optional);; Time: F 9:55; Place: 103 Psychology;More information.; This lecture of 564 will be taught in close cooperation; with Lecture 1; in fact, the assignments (but probably not the; exams) will be the same for both. For more information about; CS564 in general, and the Minibase assignments in particular,; please see the CS564 Lecture 1 Homepage .;"
"CS 577 - Introduction to Algorithms; Introduction to Algorithms - CS 577; Course Information; Instructor :;Eric Bach; Office : CSS 7385; Phone : 262 7997; e-mail : bach@cs.wisc.edu; Hours : MR 10 - 11 and by appt.; Teaching Assistant:; Bill Donaldson; Office : CSS 6394; Phone : 262- 6620; e-mail : wwd@cs.wisc.edu; Hours : T 1 - 2 R 12 - 1; Teaching Assistant:; Raji Gopalakrishnan; Office : CSS 1308; Phone : 262 6602; e-mail : raji@cs.wisc.edu; Hours : MW 11 - 12; Midterm Exam :;Oct 28, 1996 from 7:15 - 9:15pm, 1240 CS; Course Handouts;; Course Description;; Syllabus;; Books on Reserve;; Course Organization;; Homework 0;; Homework 1 Due Sep 30, 1996;; Homework 2 Due Oct 16, 1996;; Solutions to Homeworks;; Homework1;Graph; for fractal behaviour; Homework2;;Mail Archive;"
"UW CS Computer Networking Courses (Professor Landweber);UW CS Computer Networking Courses;CS 640 - Introduction to Computer Networks;CS 740 - Advanced Computer Networks;Introduction to Computer Networks - CS 640;Table of Contents;International Connectivity Map;About UW Networking Courses Offered;Course Information;Instructor;Teaching Assistants;Course Syllabus;Mail Archives;Assignments;Programming References;Selected Readings;Click;here;to get the latest text version.; Networking;courses at UW-Madison;Course Information;Lecture;Time: 8:00 - 9:15 MWF;Place: 1221 Comp Sci & Stat;Class email: cs640-1list;Instructor: Lawrence H. Landweber;Office: 7397 Comp Sci & Stat;Phone: 263-7442;Email: lhl@cs.wisc.edu;Office hours: M,W,F 9:30-11:00;Teaching Assistant: Srinivasa Narayanan;Office: 3360;Phone: 262-9275;Email: nsp@cs.wisc.edu;Office hours:; Monday 2:00p - 4:00p; Wednesday 3:00p - 5:00p; If these times are not convenient, feel free to email me at; nsp@cs.wisc.edu for an appointment.;Teaching Assistant: Ben Teitelbaum;Office: 3310;Phone: NA;Email: ben@cs.wisc.edu;Office hours:; Tuesday 1:00p - 3:00p; Thursday 2:00p - 4:00p; If these times are not convenient, feel free to email me at; ben@cs.wisc.edu for an appointment.; Fall 1996 Course Syllabus; Fall 1996 Mail Archive (moderated); CSL Mail Archive (complete); Assignments - Fall 1996;Programming Assignment 1 (Error/Warning Codes); Class Project - Implementation of ATM Network Layer and Reliable ATM Adaptation Layer;Handout (PostScript);Project overview slides (PostScript) (Powerpoint);""Software Engineering 101"" slides (PostScript) (Powerpoint); Design Document Evaluation Form (PostScript); Grading;Midterm Exam: 25%;Final Exam: 25%;Assignment 1: 5%;Term Project: 45%; Prior Midterms;Fall '92 Midterm;Fall '94 Midterm;Optional Reference Book for Project; UNIX Network Programming; Stevens, W. Richard; Prentice Hall; ISBN 0-13-949876-1; Programming References;BSD Socket Interface;Socket Interface Lecture;"
"CS 726, Fall 1996; CS 726 (Also IE 726, Math 726, Stat 726);Nonlinear Programming Theory & Applications;Fall 1996; Schedule; Lecture: 8:50 - 9:40 MWF, 1257 CS&S; Course E-mail: cs726-1list@cs.wisc.edu; Course URL: http://www.cs.wisc.edu/~cs726-1/; Instructor:; Michael C. Ferris; Office: 6391 CS&S; Telephone: 262-4281; E-mail: ferris@cs.wisc.edu; Office Hours: 10:00 - 11:00 Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday; Teaching Assistant: Yuh-Jye Lee;; Office: 1307 CS&S; Telephone: 262-6602; E-mail: yuh-jye@cs.wisc.edu; Office Hours: 12:00 - 1:00 Wednesday, 2:00 - 4:00 Thursday; Class Text:; Nonlinear Programming , Olvi L. Mangasarian, SIAM Publishers,;Philadelphia 1994.; Other Useful Texts:; Nonlinear Programming Theory and Algorithms , M. S. Bazaraa, H. D. Sherali and C. M. Shetty,;Second Edition, Wiley, New York 1993.; Nonlinear Programming , D. Bertsekas, Athena Scientific, 1996.; General Course Information; Course Overview;; Introduction; Linear Inequalities and Theorem of the Alternative; Convex Sets in $R sup n$; Convex and Concave Functions; Saddlepoint Optimality Criteria without Differentiability; Differentiable Convex and Concave Functions; First Order Optimality Criteria with Differentiability; Second Order Optimality Criteria with Differentiability; Duality in Nonlinear Programming; Generalizations of Convex Functions; Other Optimality Conditions: Exact Penalty, Augmented Lagrangians,;Gradient Projection, etc.;;; Books on Reserve at Kurt Wendt Library; Assignments and Grading; Homework assignments: 35% of grade; 1 assignment per week; Midterm examination: (November 4, 8:50 - 9:40 AM) 25% of grade; Final examination: 40% of grade;; Homework Assignments; Homework 3; Homework 4; Homework 5; Homework 6; Mathematical Programming at UW;; Home Page;; Courses;This page is updated periodically during the semester.;"
"CS 726, Fall 1996; CS 726 (Also IE 726, Math 726, Stat 726);Nonlinear Programming Theory & Applications;Fall 1996; Schedule; Lecture: 8:50 - 9:40 MWF, 1257 CS&S; Course E-mail: cs726-1list@cs.wisc.edu; Course URL: http://www.cs.wisc.edu/~cs726-1/; Instructor:; Michael C. Ferris; Office: 6391 CS&S; Telephone: 262-4281; E-mail: ferris@cs.wisc.edu; Office Hours: 10:00 - 11:00 Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday; Teaching Assistant: Yuh-Jye Lee;; Office: 1307 CS&S; Telephone: 262-6602; E-mail: yuh-jye@cs.wisc.edu; Office Hours: 12:00 - 1:00 Wednesday, 2:00 - 4:00 Thursday; Class Text:; Nonlinear Programming , Olvi L. Mangasarian, SIAM Publishers,;Philadelphia 1994.; Other Useful Texts:; Nonlinear Programming Theory and Algorithms , M. S. Bazaraa, H. D. Sherali and C. M. Shetty,;Second Edition, Wiley, New York 1993.; Nonlinear Programming , D. Bertsekas, Athena Scientific, 1996.; General Course Information; Course Overview;; Introduction; Linear Inequalities and Theorem of the Alternative; Convex Sets in $R sup n$; Convex and Concave Functions; Saddlepoint Optimality Criteria without Differentiability; Differentiable Convex and Concave Functions; First Order Optimality Criteria with Differentiability; Second Order Optimality Criteria with Differentiability; Duality in Nonlinear Programming; Generalizations of Convex Functions; Other Optimality Conditions: Exact Penalty, Augmented Lagrangians,;Gradient Projection, etc.;;; Books on Reserve at Kurt Wendt Library; Assignments and Grading; Homework assignments: 35% of grade; 1 assignment per week; Midterm examination: (November 4, 8:50 - 9:40 AM) 25% of grade; Final examination: 40% of grade;; Homework Assignments; Homework 3; Homework 4; Homework 5; Homework 6; Mathematical Programming at UW;; Home Page;; Courses;This page is updated periodically during the semester.;"
CS 737 Home Page; CS 737; Computer System Performance Evaluation and Modeling;News;[Sept 24] - Assignment 1 (Due Oct 7); Postscript;Text;[Sept 9] - MiMic library is now available at ~cs737-1/public/MiMic.; Course Information; Lecture: MWF 2:25 PM - 3:40 PM at 1325 Computer Science; DEVise Software:; Home Page -; HTML; User Manual -; Postscript; (Please do not print this file as it contains many images and will take; at least half an hour!); Initialization Instructions -; Text;; MiMic Software:; Tutorial -; HTML;Postscript; Online Help -; HTML; Qnet (Example of DEVC) -; HTML;; Professor: Miron Livny; Office: 7367 Computer Sciences; Hours: TBA; Phone: 262-0856; E-mail:; miron@cs.wisc.edu; Teaching Assistant:;Chee-Yong Chan; Office: 5364A Computer Sciences; Hours: TR 2-3 PM; Phone: 262-5105; E-mail:; cychan@cs.wisc.edu; Any suggestion or comment please send to; cychan@cs.wisc.edu;
"CS838 Java!;CS838: Java!;http://www.cs.wisc.edu/~cs838-1;Instructors;InstructorMark HillJames Larus;Office6373 CS5393 CS;Office HoursMonday 2-3 pm, Wed 11-12 amTuesday 3-4 pm , Friday 11-12 am;Phone262-2196262-9519;Emailmarkhill@cs.wisc.edularus@cs.wisc.edu;Home Pagewww.cs.wisc.edu/~markhillwww.cs.wisc.edu/~larus;Java;Java is an curious mixture of extreme hype and sound technology. This fall, CS838 is a graduate seminar that will examine Java, including the Java;programming language, network security, design of distributed applets, Java virtual machines, and Java implementations (compilers, interpreters, and special;hardware). Other Java-related topics are both welcome and encouraged.;This course will be taugh as a research seminar. First, the professors are not Java experts, but expect to learning along with the students. What you get out of;this course will be experience in studying and developing new ideas, interactioning with colleagues, and new insight into Java. We only plan to lecture for a;few weeks to present an overview of Java. Then students will work on two-month-long group projects. Students will be evaluated on the oral and written;presentation of their project. This offering of CS 838 is NOT a core CS course.;Background Material;There is no text for this course, although there are countless Java books in bookstores. Most of these books were written very quickly and are very;superficial. The Addison-Wesley series is the ""official"" Sun reference books on Java and are much better than the average (but see below; many of them are;on-line).;Implementation Reader;A collection of papers on Java implementation is available at DoIT.;On-Line Documentation;Sun maintains a web site that contains considerable Java documentation. Its URL is http://java.sun.com. This site contains considerable Java documentation,;including:;The Java Language Specification.;The Virtual Machine Specification;The Java API (Application Programmer Interface, i.e., libraries) Specification;Java Language Tutorial;Security-related papers:;Dean, Felten, Wallach, ""Java Security: From HotJava to Netscape and Beyond.;Frank Yellin, ""Low Level Security in Java.;JavaSoft, Frequently Asked Questions - Applet Security.;The web also can provide a Java Development Kit for writing and running Java applications on a PC. This kit is already installed for the SPARCstations in;the department (/s/java). The department also has the source to the JDK. You can also run Java applets in recent versions of Netscape and Microsoft's;Internet Explorer.;Sample Java applets are available from many places. Sun has a collection at: http://java.sun.com/java.sun.com/applets/index.html (that's not a typo!). The;largest collection of Java programs and applets appears to be at http://www.gamelan.com.;Lecture Slides;Postscript of our lecture transparancies are available:;Java Big Picture;Java Language Overview;Java Virtual Machine;Implementing the Java VM in Hardware?;Java Security;Project;Click here for project assignment;Below is a list of possible project topics. It is intended as a starting point, not an enumeration.;A Comparison of Java with C++, Smalltalk, Scheme, and Simula;An Implementation of a Java Interpreter that Caches Recently-Used Basic Blocks;On-the-fly Compilation of Java Applets on Small-Memory Embedded Machines;The Memory System Behavior of Compiled vs. Interpreted Java Applets;An Evaluation of Alternative Implementations of Java Monitors;A Comparison of the Java Virtual Machine with Xerox Mesa Bytecodes;The Microarchitecture of a Processor that Directly Executes Java Bytecodes;Optimizing Java Compiler;Rationalizing the Java Library;Performance Evaluation Tools and Results for Java Programs;Evaluation of Java Security;Investigate compiling other languages to the Java VM. (Subset of C -> Java VM would be very interesting.);Investigate was of formalizing the security requirements of a language and system and ways of automatically generating/verifying VM implementations.;Any security-related topic....;Investigate the cost of making the primitive types (int, float, bool, etc) objects and eliminating the dual type systems. In particular, is Java's;static typing sufficient to alleviate the overheads?;Java EEL;Dynamic compilation....;Can the language-mandated tests (array bounds, null pointer, etc) be scheduled in unused cycles on superscalar processors, so that Java runs as;fast as an unsafe language like C++?;Project Meetings;Date;Time;Group;Tue Nov 121:00__;Tue Nov 121:15__;Tue Nov 121:30__break if possible;Tue Nov 121:45__;Tue Nov 122:00__;Thu Nov 141:00__;Thu Nov 141:15__;Thu Nov 141:30__break if possible;Thu Nov 141:45__;Thu Nov 142:00__;"
"Finding Out About (UWisc CS838 - F96);Finding Out About:;Information Retrieval and other technologies;for seeking knowledge;Richard K. Belew;Visiting Professor;CS838 (Lecture 2);Univ. Wisconsin - Computer Science Department;Fall, 1996;Tue, Thurs 8:30-9:45a;Call #20616;Room: 3345 Engr;This course is designed for students interested in understanding more about;the information retrieval and AI (esp. knowledge representation and machine;learning) techniques underlying much of the exciting new activity occurring on;the World Wide Web. For a more complete description of the courese, you can;see:;an abstract;;a;syllabus of the major topics to be considered;;a graphical ""map""of how these;are related; and;a (tentative) schedule of how the semester;will proceed.; Course Resources; Readings;;Overview - Part 1 (Postscript, 56k);;Overview - Part 2 (Postscript, 64k);;Political Infidelity image (Postscript, 463k);;Assignments;;Class Email (Digested by HyperMai);;Suggestions for composing your Email for this class;Related WWW resources;Class Minutes (Taken by students, for students);Last modified by:;belew@cs.wisc.edu;17 Sept 96;"
"Chandrasekaran Sashikanth's Home Page; Chandrasekaran Sashikanth (csashi@cs.wisc.edu);Graduate Student;Department of Computer Sciences;University of Wisconsin - Madison;1210 West Dayton Street;Madison, WI 53706 USA;Advisor: Mark Hill;Project:; VMS;Education:; BTech: Indian Institute of Technology, Madras - June 1993.; M.S : Univeristy of Wisconsin, CS Department - Dec 1994.; Last Updated: September 11, 1994;"
"Curt Ellmann;Curt Ellmann; Paradise Database Project;; Department of Computer Sciences;; University of Wisconsin - Madison;;curt@cs.wisc.edu;608-263-7132; Items of Focus;Java Related Items;Paradise Home Page;Paradise Developers Page; WebGnats Defect Tracking for Paradise;; Prototype index of SHORE man pages;; My previous life in DoIT;; GIS & EOSDIS Related; The OpenGIS Consortium; The Global Positioning System (GPS); CALMIT, University of Nebraska-Lincoln; Federated Approach to EOSDIS; Database Related; Object Database Management Group Home Page; Free Database List; SQL Standards Home Page; Transaction Processing Performance Council; Illustra White Papers;Miscellaneous Sites;Campus Sites;Bob's WYRM Hoard;Computer Sciences;WiscInfo;;WiscINFO gopher;WiscINFO Web Site;UW Madison Library;nic.wiscnet.net;Corporate Web;Apple;IBM;Microsoft;AT&T Research;Lands' End;PAWWS;Commerce Net;Metrowerks;Taligent;Searching the Web;Savvy Search;WebCrawler;Open Text;The WWW Worm;Network Information (MIT);Other Sites;Internic;International Organization for Standardization;Internet Drafts FTP Site;Dilbert; Sun World Online;C++FAQ;Winsock Applications FAQ;Current Weather Maps;Dienst;Dienst Implementation;US Geologic Survey;Government Information Locator (GILS);Oakridge National Lab Center for Computing Sciences;Stock Market Data;Curt Ellmann;curt@cs.wisc.edu;Paradise Database Project;Department of Computer Sciences;University of Wisconsin, Madison;"
"Sara Bauman's Home Page; Sara (Dailey) Bauman;dailey@cs.wisc.edu;Graduate Program:;Mathematics and; Computation in Engineering (MaCE); University of Wisconsin - Madison;Computer Sciences; Department;; Engineering Mechanics & Astronautics in the; Department; of Nuclear Engineering and Engineering Physics;Education:; BS, Physics and Math/Computer Science,; Lewis and Clark College, 1994;Research Work;Publication;Current Schedule;CS310 TA page;Links to friends' home pages;Send me e-mail;Office Address:; University of Wisconsin - Madison; Computer Sciences & Statistics; 1210 West Dayton Street; CS & S 1304; Madison, WI 53706; (608) 262-6601;Last modified: Tue Sep 3 11:32:23 1996 by Sara Dailey;Tues Aug 26 2:05 1996;"
"David Wood's Home Page; David Wood (david@cs.wisc.edu);Associate Professor of Computer Science;and Electrical and Computer Engineering;Department of Computer Sciences;University of Wisconsin - Madison;1210 West Dayton Street;Madison, WI 53706 USA;david@cs.wisc.edu;Phone: 608-263-7463;Secretary: 265-4892 (Julie Fingerson or Thea Sklenar);Departmental Office: 262-1204;Fax: 608-262-9777;Research Interests:;;Computer architecture,;especially memory system design for uniprocessors and multiprocessors.; Design, implementation, and programming of parallel computers.; Operating systems for parallel computers.; Performance evaluation tools and techniques, especially;for memory system analysis.; VLSI design, including low power design for portable computers.;Research Projects:; Wisconsin Wind Tunnel (WWT); Memory System Performance Tools (WARTS);Education:; Ph.D. University of California, Berkeley, 1990; B.S. University of California, Berkeley, 1981;Current Graduate Students:; Babak Falsafi; Steve Reinhardt; Brian Toonen;Recently Graduated Students:; Rahmat Hyder (Intel); Alvy Lebeck (Duke University); Rob Pfile (Sun Microsystems); Mark Callaghan (Informix);Courses I Teach:;Fall 1996:;CS/ECE 552 - Introduction to Computer Architecture;CS/ECE 354 - Machine Organization and Programming;CS/ECE 552 - Introduction to Computer Architecture;CS/ECE 752 - Advanced Computer Architecture I;CS/ECE 757 - Advanced Computer Architecture II; Selected Recent Papers;Decoupled Hardware Support for Distributed Shared Memory;Steven K. Reinhardt, Robert W. Pfile, and;David A. Wood,;ACM/IEEE International Symposium on Computer Architecture (ISCA),;May 1996;Coherent Network Interfaces for Fine-Grain Communication;Shubhendu S. Mukherjee and Babak Falsafi and Mark D. Hill and;David A. Wood,;ACM/IEEE International Symposium on Computer Architecture (ISCA),;May 1996;Synchronization Hardware for Networks of Workstations: Performance vs. Cost;Rahmat S. Hyder and David A. Wood,;ACM/IEEE International Conference on Supercomputing (ICS),;May 1996;Dynamic Self-Invalidation: Reducing Coherence Overhead in Shared-Memory Multiprocessors;Alvin R. Lebeck and;David A. Wood,;ACM/IEEE International Symposium on Computer Architecture (ISCA),;June 1995;Active Memory: A New Abstraction For Memory System Simulation;Alvin R. Lebeck and;David A. Wood,;ACM SIGMETRICS;May 1995;Accuracy vs. Performance in Parallel Simulation of Interconnection Networks,;Douglas C. Burger and David A. Wood.;In the proceedings of the 9th International Parallel Processing Symposium, April, 1995.;Application-Specific Protocols for User-Level Shared Memory,;Babak Falsafi, Alvin Lebeck, Steven Reinhardt, Ioannis Schoinas,;Mark Hill, James Larus, Anne Rogers, and David Wood,;In Proceedings of Supercomputing '94.;Fine-grain Access Control for Distributed Shared Memory,;Ioannis Schoinas, Babak Falsafi, Alvin Lebeck, Steven Reinhardt,;James Larus, and David Wood,;Proceedings of ASPLOS VI.;Tempest and Typhoon: User-Level Shared Memory,;Steven Reinhardt, James Larus, and David Wood,;Proceedings of Int'l Symposium on Computer Architecture, 1994.;Cache Profiling and the SPEC Benchmarks: A Case Study,;Alvin R. Lebeck and;David A. Wood,;pages 15-26,;IEEE COMPUTER,;October 1994;Cooperative Shared Memory: Software and Hardware for Scalable Multiprocessors,;Mark D. Hill, James R. Larus, Steven K. Reinhardt, David A. Wood,;ACM Transactions on Computer Systems (TOCS), November 1993.;The Wisconsin Wind Tunnel Project: An Annotated Bibliography,;Mark D. Hill, James R. Larus, David A. Wood,;Computer Architecture News, v. 22, n. 5, December 1994.;On-line version revised frequently.;Wisconsin Architectural Research Tool Set (WARTS),;Mark D. Hill, James R. Larus, Alvin R. Lebeck, Madhusudhan Talluri,;David A. Wood,;Computer Architecture News (CAN), August 1993.; Research Summary;My main research goals lie in developing cost-effective computer;architectures that take advantage of rapidly changing technologies. My;research program has two major thrusts:; evaluating the performance,;feasibility, and correctness of new architectures, and; developing new tools and techniques to facilitate this evaluation.;Currently, this research focusses on the following three areas:; multi-paradigm multiprocessors,;which efficiently integrate shared-memory, message-passing, and hybrid;programming paradigms,; a virtual prototyping system, which exploits the similarites;of an existing parallel machine to simulate a hypothetical parallel machine,; and, techniques for understanding and tuning program performance.;Recent results include developing a new interface---called;Tempest---between user-level protocol handlers and system-supplied;mechanisms. Tempest provides the mechanisms that allow programmers,;compilers, and program libraries to implement and use message passing,;transparent shared memory, and hybrid combinations of the two. Tempest;mechanisms are low-overhead messages, bulk data transfer, virtual;memory management, and fine-grain access control. The most novel;mechanism---fine-grain access control---allows user software to tag;blocks (e.g., 32 bytes) as read-write, read-only, or invalid, so the;local memory can be used to transparently cache remote data.;We are exploring alternative ways to support this interface.;The first---called Typhoon---is;a proposed hardware;platform that implements the Tempest mechanisms with a fully-programmable,;user-level processor in the network interface. A reverse-translation;table (RTLB) invokes the network processor when it detects a fine-grain;access fault.;We have simulated Typhoon on the Wisconsin Wind Tunnel and found that;a transparent shared-memory protocol running on Typhoon performs;comparably +/- 30% to an;all-hardware Dir{N}NB cache-coherence protocol for five shared-memory;programs.;We have also developed a new memory system simulation method that;optimizes the common case---cache hits---significantly reducing;simulation time.;Fast-Cache tightly integrates reference generation and simulation by;providing the abstraction of tagged memory blocks: each reference;invokes a user-specified function depending upon the reference type and;memory block state. The simulator controls how references are processed;by manipulating memory block states, specifying a special NULL function;for no action cases. Fast-Cache implements this abstraction by using;binary-rewriting to perform a table lookup before each memory;reference. On a SPARCStation 10, Fast-Cache simulation times are two to;three times faster than a conventional trace-driven simulator that;calls a procedure on each memory reference; simulation times are only;three to six times slower than the original, un-instrumented program.;We are also investigating using Fast-Cache's binary rewriting techniques;to support the Tempest interface on existing hardware platforms.; Last Updated: July 11, 1996;"
Doug Burger's Home Page;Doug Burger's Home Page;Professional information:;Research summary;Resume/CV;Transcript;Course projects;Advisor;Affiliated projects:;Galileo/SCI;Wisconsin Wind Tunnel;Pages I maintain:;WWW computer architecture;UW computer architecture;SimpleScalar tool set;Generica;SACM;Personal stuff:;About me;Useful links;Photo gallery;Riding the DEMON;Hunting those damn cats;Beware of grad school;
"CS412 - Introduction to Numerical Methods;-------------------------------------> last change: 06nov96;;CS412 - Introduction to Numerical Methods;This page contains information for the Fall 1996 CS412 course.; smile; changes on 29oct:;assignment 5 , due 12nov96.;NOTE the CHANGED DUE DATE as well as the slightly changed points for problems;1 and 4.; diary of 29 oct class;;additional material on; residual and error, condition # (29oct); changes on 04nov: Rick Carl's office hour this R is 11-12.; list of errata for the text.; changes on 05nov:; diary of 31 oct class;; diary of 05 nov class;; changes on 06nov: useful email concerning; problem 3 (05nov) UPDATED 06nov.;Since there was a question about the computational complexity of numerical;analysis algorithms, I have posted a; preprint, by one of the foremost;mathematicians of today, on that subject, for those interested in this tricky;topic.;least-squares solution and approximation (05nov); Time and Place: TR 12:55 - 2:15, CS&STAT 1221; Lecturer: Carl de Boor.; email: deboor@cs.wisc.edu; Office hours: WF11-12, R14:30-15:30, 7379 CS&Stat; FINAL EXAM: Thursday 19dec, 2:45p. I don't intend to provide a make-up;exam.;TAs;The text is brand new: Introduction to Scientific Computing , by C.;Van Loan (Computer Science Department, Cornell University), Prentice-Hall,;hence there is a growing; list of errata for the text; also the text;may be supplemented here and there by;additional material (12sep, 19sep,;24sep, 26sep, 01oct, 08oct, 10oct, 15oct, 17oct, 29oct).;All the m-files mentioned in the book are;available, organized by chapter. Be aware, though, that, on the; ftp site;mentioned in the book as well as here, all their names begin with a capital;letter while, sometimes, their name in the book begins with lower case;letter.; matlab diaries of class sessions 03sep,;05sep, 10sep, 12sep, 17sep, 24sep, 26sep, 01oct, 03oct, 08oct, 10oct,;15oct, 29oct.; Present plans are to have all computing assignments in MATLAB (rather;than Fortran or C).; Kermit Sigmon's MATLAB Primer, 3rd Edition, is available at DoIT, for;$1.95; look for Handout #2 for CS 525 or under CS 412.; one student's reaction to the student;edition of MATLAB .; accessing matlab via telnet (as of 8sep); accessing matlab via telnet from a Win95;or Win3.1 machine;Course Overview;Course Syllabus tentative, as of 29oct; Assignments (1, 2, 3, 4, 5), also;answers to 2, 3, 4.; Here is a list of key-words.;grades;(look for the last four digits of your student id); email concerning current questions.;Related Links;You might wish to explore the CS;Department's Home Page, and the Computer Systems Lab's Frequently Asked Questions list.;A simple vi;tutorial is available, as well as the more advanced vi reference;viva vi!.;There is also a good;introduction to unix.;"
"CS717 - Numerical Functional Analysis;-------------------------------------> last change: 26aug96;;CS717 - Numerical Functional Analysis;This page contains information for the Fall 1995 version of; MATH/CS 717 .;Current class notes will be available in the following; directory , as well as in hard copy from DoIT.;classes are MWF 8:46 - 9:40.; most recent announcement (21 dec):;I have posted the grades.; Time and location: MWF 8:46-9:40, 1257 CS&Stat;Lecturer: Carl de Boor.; email: deboor@cs.wisc.edu; Office hours: M10-11, W11-12, F14:30-15:30,; 7379 CS&Stat;on-line classnotes. 0, I, II, III,;IV, V, VI, VII, VIII, IX, X, Index.; Assignments: due 18sep, 25sep,;2oct, 9oct, none due 16oct, 23oct, 30oct, 06nov, 13nov, 20nov, 04dec, 11dec.; email concerning homework and;other course-related questions.;;Related Links;You might wish to explore the;CS Department's Home Page, or the; CS Course;Offerings.;"
"Carl de Boor's Home Page;-------------------------------------> last change: 13 sep 96;; Carl de Boor, Professor, Computer Sciences and Mathematics;Department of Computer Sciences;University of Wisconsin-Madison;1210 West Dayton Street;Madison, Wisconsin 53706-1685 USA;Office hours, fall '96 (when in town): WF11-12, R14:30-15:30;Iso Schoenberg worked here in Madison;*), from 1966 until his death in 1990.;c.v.;email:;deboor@cs.wisc.edu;telephone: (608) 263-7308, 3-2661;fax: (608) 262-9777; My schedule for fall '96. I;am teaching CS 412 and MA 313.; Look for some of my former or present; students.; Selected recent articles on approximation theory written at UW are;available by anonymous ftp from;ftp.cs.wisc.edu/Approx.;The;read.me file provides access to individual files there at the;click of a button (it's a clickable version of the read.me file there).;The (small) subset of these (co)authored by me are clickable in; here.; Click here for a;list of errata for the third edition of [Conte and de Boor,;Elementary Numerical Analysis: An Algorithmic Approach], and here for that; list of errata for the various printings of;[Carl de Boor, A Practical Guide to Splines].; Check out the; latest versions of the;various programs and drivers in that latter book.; Click Journal of;Approximation Theory;(published by Academic Press);for information about that journal (including recently accepted and published;papers) as well as for email and postal addresses of many approximators and;much, much more.;Ditto for;Constructive Approximation;(published by;Springer-Verlag).;Ditto for;East Journal on Approximations.;Search their;tables of content, singly or combined, (and thank; Paul Nevai for this;handy tool).;There is also;Approximation down under;and;Amos Ron's;list of homepages of; approximators .; A spline bibliography is available.; For links to various publishers, journals,; people, resources, see the; Ilas Information Center (IIC).;;Seek and ye shall find.; For an organized introduction into the joys of vi, see;viva_vi!. There are also;on-screen tutorials.; Click here for a great picture of;Hermite.;The same place also contains useful information about;html.;But the;html-primer;might be even better.; For a very unusual and ever_changing home page, try; David Griffeath's;Primordial Soup Kitchen.;; For various interesting information, see;odds and ends;, and thank; Allan Pinkus; at pinkus@techunix.technion.ac.il;or; Paul Nevai;if you find any of it useful. Also, check out;Paul Nevai's way to make;his mathematical output;available.; COURSES; Check here for information about; MATH/CS 717..; Click here for information about; Numerical Analysis here at CS .;*); The house next door to Iso's is now occupied by;Takis Souganides and;Thaleia Zariphopoulou.; The Szego bust now stands; here . Have a look at the; inscription .;"
MA887 - Approximation Theory;-------------------------------------> last change: 29 apr 96;;MA887 - Approximation Theory;This page contains information for the Spring 1995 version of;this math course.; Notes for the course.;
"DEVise Home Page;DEVise: an Environment for Data Exploration and Visualization;Table of Contents:;Features;Examples;In Depth;Publications;Related Work;Release;Contacts;Features;These features distinguish DEVise from other visualization environments:;Visual query interface: Visualizations constructed with one;set of data may be saved and applied to other input data.;Data larger than memory are efficiently handled.;Mapping from data to graphics at record level. (e.g., you can;control the color or shape of individual records.);Ability to query data records used to represent graphics.;Flexible layout mechanisms within windows. It helps user group data;together for comparison, or put the aside when not needed.;Linked X, Y, or X and Y axes.;Cursor helps compare the relationship between different views;of the data.;Record based input data.;Direct input of ASCII files.;Integer, float, date, and string data types.;Examples;Check out the following examples for some cool pictures,;and a quick introduction to what DEVise can do.;R-Tree Validation;Molecular Biology (Cell Images);Soil Science/BIRCH Clustering;Financial Data Exploration;Family Medicine/National Climate;Data Center;Geographical Information System;Soil Science;File server;Program Traces;Clinical Sciences; Many more;examples at the Data Viewer for Family Medicine.;In Depth;For a detailed description of DEVise:;Model of Visualization;Visual Query Interface;Performance Issues;Publications;Miron Livny, Raghu Ramakrishnan, and Jussi Myllymaki. ``Visual Exploration of Large Data;Sets.'' In Proceedings of the IS&T/SPIE Conference on Visual Data;Exploration and Analysis, January, 1996.;Michael Cheng, Miron Livny, and Raghu Ramakrishnan. ``Visual Analysis of Stream Data.'' In;Proceedings of the IS&T/SPIE Conference on Visual Data Exploration and;Analysis, February, 1995.;Raghu Ramakrishnan, Michael Cheng, Miron Livny, and Praveen;Seshadri, ``What's next? Sequence;queries.'' In Proceedings of the International Conference on the;Management of Data (COMAD), December, 1994.;Related Work;The SEQ;project is complementary to DEVise in that it is designed to query;record based sequenced data. The output of the queries may be;visualized with DEVise.;Release Information;We are currently releasing version 1.1.8 of DEVise. The executables;for the Solaris platforms are dynamically linked so you need to;set your LD_LIBRARY_PATH environment variable appropriately to run;DEVise. On all other supported architectures, the executables are;statically linked and require no shareable libraries at run time.;To download DEVise click here.;Contacts;For more information on this research project, contact;Miron Livny,;Raghu Ramakrishnan,;Jussi Myllymaki,;Guangshun Chen,;or Kent Wenger.;User Support Hotline; Send mail to the DEVise User;Support Hotline.;This page has been accessed;times since October 1, 1996.;"
"Home Page of David J. DeWitt;;David J. DeWitt; Professor and Romnes Fellow; Computer Sciences Department; University of Wisconsin; 1210 W. Dayton St.; Madison, WI 53706-1685; Telephone: (608) 262-1204; Fax: (608) 262-9777; Email: dewitt@cs.wisc.edu;Ph.D., University of Michigan, 1976;Interests:;Object oriented database systems, parallel database systems, database;benchmarking, geographic information systems; Research Summary;My two main research projects are SHORE and Paradise. The objective;of SHORE is to design, implement, and evaluate a persistent object;system that will serve the needs of a wide variety of target applications;including hardware and software CAD systems, persistent programming;languages, geographic information systems, satellite data repositories,;and multimedia applications. SHORE expands on the basic capabilities;of the widely-used Exodus Storage Manager (developed at Wisconsin,;funded by ARPA) in a number of ways including support for typed;objects, multiple programming languages, a `Unix-like' hierarchical;name space for named objects, and a Unix-compatible interface;to objects with a `text' field. This interface is intended to;ease the transition of applications from the Unix file system;environment to SHORE as existing Unix tools such as vi and cc;will be able to store their data in SHORE objects without modification;(basically a Unix file becomes either a single SHORE object or;the text field of a complex object). SHORE is being targeted at;a wide range of hardware environments, scaling all the way from;individual workstations to heterogeneous client/server networks;to large multiprocessors such as the Intel Paragon. SHORE is a;joint project with Profs. Carey, Naughton, and Solomon.;The Paradise project is attempting to apply the technology developed;as part of the SHORE and Gamma projects (Gamma is a parallel relational;database system developed at the University of Wisconsin) to the;task of storing and manipulating geographic data sets. Currently,;many geographic information systems (GIS) use relational database;systems to hold their data. While such systems are excellent for;managing business data they are a poor match for the modeling;needs of a GIS which must be capable of storing and manipulating;much more complex objects such as polygons and polylines. Instead,;Paradise employs an object-oriented data model, providing a much;better match to the type needs of a GIS. Another significant difference;from current GIS systems is that Paradise employs parallelism;to facilitate executing and processing large data sets such as;satellite images. The target hardware platform for the project;is a cluster of 64 Sparc 20s connected with ATM.; Sample Recent Publications; The OO7 benchmark (with;M. Carey and J. Naughton), Proceedings of the SIGMOD Conference,;Washington, DC, May, 1993.; Shoring up persistent;applications (with D. DeWitt, M. Franklin, N. Hall, M. McAuliffe,;J. Naughton, D. S chuh, C. Tan, O. Tsatalos, S. White, and M.;Zwilling), Proceedings of the ACM SIGMOD International Conference;on Management of Data, Minneapolis, MN, May, 1994.; Client-server Paradise;(with N. Kabra, J. Luo, J. Patel, and J. Yu), Proceedings;of the Very Large Data Base Conference, Santiego, Chile,;August, 1994.; Recent Talks; VLDB 95 Invited Talk; 1996 Object-Relational Summit Presentation; This page was automatically created January 18, 1995.; Email pubs@cs.wisc.edu to report errors.;"
"Home Page for Tony D'Silva's cs110, C++ section;CS110M; Instructor: Tony D'Silva; How to contact me:; email:dsilva@cs.wisc.edu; office: 1349, Computer Sciences and Statistics; phone: 262-5340; Office Hours:; 12:00-1:00p MF or by appointment; Textbook;Problem solving with C++-- the object of programming by;Walter Savitch; Section Information:; 8:00-9:15a, Sept 3 - Oct 24 , 1263 Comp. Sci. & Stat., (First;day in 226 Noland, as specified in Timetable)Lec.4; 1:00-2:15p, Sept 3 - Oct 24, 2104 Chamberlin, Lec.12; Computer Lab; Rm. 1350, Computer Science and Statistics; Course Information:; Day 1 handout; What is 110 all about; Tentative Syllabus for semester; Late Policy; Grading Criteria; Academic Misconduct; Handouts; Important software :;Introduction to Microsoft Windows;Hints for Windows Compilers;The Windows operating system;Email;Mosaic;Netscape; C++ information:;Introduction to Borland C++;The C++ language;The Savitch Text; Assignments:; Program0 due Tuesday, Nov 5th; Program1 due Tuesday, Nov 12;;;;Solution to quizzes;;Last modified: Tue Nov 5 06:53:33 1996 by Anthony D'Silva;dsilva@cs.wisc.edu;"
"CS 540, Fall 1996;CS 540;Introduction to Artificial Intelligence;Fall 1996; Instructor:; Chuck Dyer; Office: 6397 CS; Telephone: 262-1965; E-mail: dyer@cs.wisc.edu; Office Hours: 2:30 - 3:30 Tuesdays, 1:30 - 2:30 Fridays,; and by appointment; Teaching Assistant: David Finton; Office: 3360 CS; Telephone: 262-9275; E-mail: finton@cs.wisc.edu; Office Hours: 1:00 - 2:00 Mondays and Thursdays, and by appointment; Teaching Assistant: Bryan So; Office: 5364 CS; Telephone: 262-5105; E-mail: so@cs.wisc.edu; Office Hours: 12 - 1 Mondays and Wednesdays, and by appointment;; What's New?;Scores to Date (11/1/96);Histogram of Total (Weighted) Scores to Date;; General Course Information;Schedule; Lecture: 11:00 - 11:50 MWF, 1221 CS; Discussion: 3:30 - 4:20 M, 3425 Sterling; Prerequisite: CS 367; Grading;3 Exams: 20% each; ~6 Homework assignments: 40%;;Textbooks;Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach by S. Russell and P. Norvig, Prentice Hall, Englewood Cliffs, N.J., 1995; ANSI Common Lisp by P. Graham, Prentice Hall, Englewood Cliffs, N.J., 1996;; Course Overview; Syllabus;; General Information about CS 540;Web Page: http://www.cs.wisc.edu/~dyer/cs540/;Class E-mail Alias: cs540-1list@cs.wisc.edu;;Getting Started;; Lisp;; Reading Assignments to Date;; Homework;; Examinations;; Handouts;; Lecture Notes;; Interesting AI Demos and Projects;; Other Intro to AI Courses;; Links of Interest;; A Former CS 540 Student;"
"CS 766 - Computer Vision;CS 766 - Computer Vision;Fall 1995;Instructor: Chuck Dyer;Office: 6397 CSS;Telephone: 262-1965;Email: dyer@cs.wisc.edu;Office Hours: 2:30 - 3:30 Mondays and Thursdays, and by appointment;Teaching Assistant: Bryan So;Office: 5364 CSS;Telephone: 262-5105;Email: so@cs.wisc.edu;Office Hours: 1:00 - 2:00 Wednesdays and Fridays, and by appointment;Students; What's New?; General Course Information;Fundamentals of computer vision.;First, an introduction to low-level image analysis methods,;including image formation, edge detection, feature;detection, and segmentation.;Principles of defining modules for;reconstructing three-dimensional scene information using;techniques such as;shape from shading and depth from stereo.;Active methods for scene recovery such as depth from focus and;occluding contour detection by viewpoint control.;Motion detection and analysis including tracking.;Model-based three-dimensional object recognition.;Schedule; 1:00 - 2:15 p.m. Tuesdays and Thursdays in 1325 CSS; Prerequisites; CS 540, fundamentals of calculus, probability; theory, linear algebra, and C; Grading;Midterm Exam (Thursday, November 16): 35%; Homework assignments: 35%; Project: 25%; Class participation: 5%;;Syllabus;Required Readings;Selected parts of; Machine Vision; by R. Jain, R. Kasturi, and B. G. Schunck, McGraw-Hill,; New York, 1995; A collection of readings;from journals and conference proceedings;;to be sold at DOIT Documentation in small batches;Supplementary Reading Sources;Online Information;Most course information will be available online at WWW URL;http://www.cs.wisc.edu/~dyer/cs766.html; Reading Assignments to Date;9/5: Chapters 1 and 8 of JKS, and Paper #1 (at DOIT);9/14: Chapter 2;9/21: Chapter 3;9/28: Chapters 4 and 5;10/5: 4 papers at DOIT available as Handout #3;10/17: Chapter 6 except 6.6, 6.7, 6.8.3, and 6.9;10/19: Chapter 7.1 - 7.3, and 2 papers at DOIT available as Handout #4;11/2: 3 papers at DOIT available as Handout #5, and Chapters 9, 11.1 - 11.3;11/28: Chapter 14 (primarily 14.4);Student Scores and Grades; Homework Assignments;Homework #0: Image Enhancement by Histogram Modification (Optional);Make a copy of your portrait image in ~cs766-1/public/images/;and then use xv to contrast enhance your face. Do this by;first rotating the image, then cropping a window around your head;(say down to your shoulders), and finally interactively adjusting the;Intensity modification function in the Color Editor window under the;Windows button. (You are also free to modify other things such as color;if you wish.) When you have found a good grayscale transformation;save the result as a color gif image and;put it in the same directory where;the original image is. Send me email telling me qualitatively what;intensity transformation you applied and why it improves the quality;of the image overall. I'll then use this image in the ""photo board"";of students in the class. Feel free to use this image in your own;Web home page as well!;Homework #1: Skeletons (Due: October 3);;Learn about getting started with; the Vista vision software;Read the Introduction to Vista Programming manual; that is available at DOIT Documentation; Corrections to the Original Assignment;;In Method 1, change condition 1 to be ""at least 3 ...""; instead of ""at least 2 ...""; this will prevent some; types of shapes from disappearing altogether; In Method 1, condition 2 should also count as a 0-1 transition; the case where NW=0 and N=1; In Method 2, the 3 x 3 matrix c for city-block distance should have; infinity (i.e., some large constant), not 0, in the four corners; In Method 2, the 3 x 3 matrix c for chessboard distance should have; 0, not 1, in the center position;;TEST IMAGES to be used:; (1) /p/vision/images/hw1/DOIT.v; (2) /p/vision/images/hw1/hand.v;To evaluate your thinning results, you might want to; try the following additional experiment using the output of at least; one of your tests: (1) Convert your skeleton image to ubyte format using; vconvert, (2) edit (you may need to use Emacs because vi is; not ""8-bit clean"") the header of the new; image file so that it contains the following lines right after the; repn: ubyte line:; component_interp: gradient; low_threshold: 1; high_threshold: 2; (3) run vlink on this file, and then (4) vsegedges.; Try using the results on the image hand.v, for example, to; see how well this approach might be used to determine the direction; the index finger is pointing (for a HCI application, say).; Note: The thinning method may in fact delete entirely some shapes;; e.g., a 2 x 2 block of 1's surrounded by all 0's will disappear; The thinning algorithm is based on the papers: (1) T. Zhang and C. Suen,; A fast parallel algorithm for thinning digital patterns,; Comm. ACM 27(3), 1984, 236-239, and; (2) H. Lu and P. Wang, A comment on ""a fast parallel algorithm; for thinning digital patterns,"" Comm. ACM 29(3),; 1986, 239-242.; Comparison of student results of the; different methods applied to the pointing hand image and a; rotated version of this test image;;Homework #2: Image Splining for Mosaics (Due: October 24);;Read the 3 papers:;;E. H. Adelson et al., Pyramid methods in image processing,; RCA Engineer 29-6, Nov/Dec 1984; P. Burt and E. H. Adelson, The Laplacian pyramid as a compact; image code, IEEE Trans. Comm. 31, 1983, 532-540; P. Burt and E. H. Adelson, A multiresolution spline; with application to image mosaics, ACM Trans. Graphics;2, 1983, 217-236;;Hints and FAQs;Some splined images; produced by students in the class;;Homework #3: Segmentation by Snakes (Due: November 9);;Read the 2 papers:;;M. Kass, A. Witkin and D. Terzopoulos,; Snakes: Active contour models,; Int. J. Computer Vision 1,; 1988, 321-331; D. Williams and M. Shah, A fast algorithm for active contours; and curvature estimation, Computer Vision, Graphics, and Image; Processing: Image Understanding 55, 1992, 14-26;;Hints and FAQs;Homework #4: Your Own Project (Due: December 18);; Student Project Titles and Abstracts; See Supplementary Readings; for some additional papers that might help you select a topic.; Student projects done in Stanford vision course; Computer Accounts;Accounts; Course accounts are on the Sun Sparcstations called sun1 - sun36; in rooms 1358, 1363 and 1368. Each account has a large disk space quota; of 50MB so you can store images for homeworks and; your project. Be sure to delete old images and compress others; (see gzip(1)), however,; in order to save space.; Email; Email sent to cs766-1list; goes to everyone in the class including the instructor and TA; Printers; To print images you should use one of the laserprinters,; laser1 - laser4, which are located; in room 1359. Alternatively, the generic printer name laser will; send output to one of the four printers with the shortest queue. Caution:; Before sending images to the printer, be sure to check the queue; if; there are a lot of jobs being printed it is bad manners to send images; to be printed because they take so long to print. Be considerate!;Vision Software; Vista; The Vista; programming environment will be used in the homework assignments.; The code is located in the directory /p/vision/ip-tools/vista/; Man pages are in /p/vision/ip-tools/vista/man/; and executables are in /p/vision/ip-tools/vista/bin/; Xv;xv(1) is an interactive image display program for the X; window system that is very useful for displaying images in a; variety of formats.; ImgStar; 70 basic image processing operations invoked using Unix-like command lines.; Code, executables and manual are in /p/vision/ip-tools/imgstar/; Khoros; The Khoros image processing software development environment; provides a set of basic image processing modules and a graphical; programming language interface for rapid prototyping of simple; image processing algorithms. The code is located in the directory; /p/vision/ip-tools/khoros /p/vision/ip-tools/khoros/bin/cantata; is the executable that starts up the interactive environment.; Netpbm; A toolkit for conversion of images between a large variety of; different formats. Based on the Pbmplus package. Man pages are in; /p/vision/ip-tools/man/ and executables are in; /p/vision/ip-tools/bin/; Matlab;Matlab(1) is a numeric computation and visualization; environment. Signal processing; and image processing toolboxes are especially relevant.;;Test Images; Most test images will be put in the directory; /p/vision/images/ although they may require format; conversion to be used. Some other images may be put in; ~cs766-1/public/images/ Numerous image databases are also; accessible via the WWW; for example, see the; collection of test images at CMU; Examination;Examination;Solution; The Exam will be held on Thursday, November 16 from 12:45 pm to 2:15 pm in the regular classroom, 1325 CS. Note the early; starting time! The exam will cover topics up through shape-from-shading,; including readings in the textbook, papers sold through DOIT, and; homework assignments. You may bring into the exam one (1) 8.5"" x 11""; sheet of paper with any notes you want on both sides. The exam will; focus on main ideas and algorithms, not proofs. See old exams below for; the types of questions that will be asked.; Old Exams;;Exam 1 - Spring 1994;Exam 2 - Spring 1994;Exam 1 - Spring 1992;Exam 2 - Spring 1992; Links of Interest;Computer Vision Home Page (highly recommended!); Chuck Dyer's Links of Interest;B. Wandell's List of Useful Numbers in Vision Science;HDTV;;Grand Alliance HDTV System Specification;Advanced Television Systems Committee (ATSC);ATSC Documents in postscript;SPIE Optical Science and Engineering Library; Vision Demos and Projects;Apple's Quicktime VR image mosaicing product;IBM's PanoramIX image mosaicing;An Example of Panoramic Image Mosaicing;DECface talking synthetic face;CMU Video-Rate Stereo Machine;CMU Virtualized Reality Project;IBM's QBIC Image Database Project;Miscellaneous Computer Vision Demos; Other Computer Vision and Related Courses;CS 585 and CS 835 at Boston University; Cardiff University (UK);Khoros Digital Image Processing Online Course;Royal Institute of Sweden;Stanford University;University of Virginia;University of Washington;"
"Charles R. Dyer's Home Page;Charles R. Dyer;Professor;Department of Computer Sciences;University of Wisconsin-Madison;1210 West Dayton Street;Madison,;Wisconsin;53706-1685 USA;E-mail: dyer@cs.wisc.edu;Telephone: (608) 262-1965;Fax: (608) 262-9777;Finger info;Ph.D., University of Maryland, 1979;(Curriculum Vitae);Areas of Interest:;Computer vision, three-dimensional shape representation,;appearance modeling, view synthesis, active vision, visualization;Group Leader, Wisconsin Computer Vision Group;Program Co-Chair, CVPR '96;Research Interests; View Synthesis;The goal of this work is to develop basic tools for controlling;in real-time, either autonomously or interactively, a virtual camera;of a real environment. The input is a set of images or video;streams, acquired from fixed or mobile cameras around a site,;and the output is a panoramic visualization of the scene in which;a virtual, user-controlled camera can be moved through the environment.;With this technology a user could interactively navigate through;a real environment, controlling a customized path of views of the;site that are not predetermined by the input images. The main research;question is how to adaptively combine a set of basis images to synthesize;new views of the scene without 3D models or 3D scene reconstruction;as an intermediate step. Recently we have developed an innovative;technique, which we call;view morphing,;that takes two basis;images and interpolates a continuous range of in-between images;corresponding to views on the linear path connecting the two camera centers.; Visual Exploration;Computer vision researchers have recently started to investigate how;to actively control the image acquisition process by controlling;camera parameters. We have been studying how to purposefully control the;position and orientation of a camera in order to dynamically adjust;viewpoint based on the appearance of a three-dimensional scene. The;use of real-time viewpoint-control behaviors is important for;solving tasks such as exploring an unknown object in order to find;specific surface markings, building a global model of an unknown;shape, or recognizing an object.;By coordinating simple observer behaviors that change the appearance;of surfaces in a well-defined way, we simplify the image computations;required, make precise the global progress of an algorithm, and;eliminate the need for accurate differential measurements of the;camera motion. We believe that this active approach of moving towards;viewpoints that are closely related to the geometry of the viewed;objects is a very important and general one. We have used this;approach to develop provably-correct algorithms for (1) moving to a;side view of a surface of revolution in order to recover its shape, and;(2) reconstructing the global surface of an unknown smooth,;arbitrarily-shaped object.; Visualization;In the area of visualization we have developed mapping techniques;capable of generating displays of all possible data objects defined in;a user's algorithm, without the need for user-defined, type-specific;graphics display procedures. This capability for displaying;arbitrary combinations of an algorithm's data objects in a common;frame of reference, coupled with interactive control of algorithm;execution, provides a powerful way to understand algorithm behavior,;especially interactive visual experiments with scientific data;analysis algorithms. We have implemented a system called VIS-AD for;experimenting with these techniques and have used it for visualizing;intermediate and final results of data analysis algorithms for;problems such as discriminating clouds in satellite images.;Recent Publications; S. M. Seitz and C. R. Dyer,; Cyclic motion analysis using the period trace,; in Motion-Based Recognition, M. Shah and; R. Jain, eds., Kluwer, Boston, to appear.; S. M. Seitz and C. R. Dyer,; View-invariant analysis of cyclic motion,; Int. J. Computer Vision, to appear.; S. M. Seitz and C. R. Dyer,;; View morphing,; Proc. SIGGRAPH 96, 1996, 21-30.; S. M. Seitz and C. R. Dyer,;; Toward image-based scene representation using view morphing,; Proc. 13th Int. Conf. Pattern Recognition, Vol. I, Track A:; Computer Vision, 1996, 84-89.; L. Yu and C. R. Dyer,;; Shape recovery from stationary surface contours by controlled observer motion, in; Advances in Image Understanding: A Festschrift for; Azriel Rosenfeld,; IEEE Computer Society Press, Los Alamitos, Ca., 1996, 177-193.; K. N. Kutulakos and C. R. Dyer,;; Global surface reconstruction by purposive control of observer motion,; Artificial Intelligence 78, No. 1-2, 1995, 147-177.; S. M. Seitz and C. R. Dyer,;; Complete scene reconstruction from four point correspondences,; Proc. 5th Int. Conf. Computer Vision, 1995, 330-337.; S. M. Seitz and C. R. Dyer,;; Physically-valid view synthesis by image interpolation,; Proc. Workshop on Representation of Visual Scenes,; 1995, 18-25.; K. N. Kutulakos and C. R. Dyer,;; Recovering shape by purposive viewpoint adjustment,; Int. J. Computer Vision 12, 1994, 113-136.; K. N. Kutulakos, W. B. Seales, and C. R. Dyer,;; Building global object models by purposive viewpoint control,; Proc. 2nd CAD-Based Vision Workshop,; 1994, 169-182.; K. N. Kutulakos, C. R. Dyer, and V. J. Lumelsky,;; Provable strategies for vision-guided exploration in three dimensions,; Proc. 1994 IEEE Int. Conf. Robotics and Automation,; 1994, 1365-1372.; K. N. Kutulakos and C. R. Dyer,;; Occluding contour detection using affine invariants and purposive; viewpoint control,; Proc. Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Conf.,; 1994, 323-330.; S. M. Seitz and C. R. Dyer,;; Affine invariant detection of periodic motion,; Proc. Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Conf.,; 1994, 970-975.; S. M. Seitz and C. R. Dyer,;; Detecting irregularities in cyclic motion,; Proc. Workshop on Motion of Non-Rigid and Articulated Objects,; 1994, 178-185.; W. L. Hibbard, B. E. Paul, A. L. Battaiola, D. A. Santek,; M-F. Voidrot-Martinez, and C. R. Dyer,;; Interactive visualization of earth and space science computations,; Computer 27, No. 7, July 1994, 65-72.; W. L. Hibbard, C. R. Dyer, and B. E. Paul,;; A lattice model for data display,; Proc. Visualization '94, 1994, 310-317.;Recent publications (including abstracts) by Wisconsin Computer Vision Group;Courses Taught; CS 540 - Introduction to Artificial Intelligence (Spring 1996, Fall 1996); CS 766 - Computer Vision (Fall 1995, Spring 1997);Current Ph.D. Students; Gareth Bestor; Brian Morgan; Steve Seitz; Liangyin Yu;Ph.D. Graduates;;Bill L. Hibbard, Ph.D. 1995;(whibbard@macc.wisc.edu);Visualizing Scientific Computations: A System based on;Lattice-Structured Data and Display Models;;Kiriakos N. Kutulakos, Ph.D. 1994;(kyros@cs.rochester.edu);Exploring Three-Dimensional Objects by Controlling the Point of;Observation;;Mark C. Allmen, Ph.D. 1991;(allmen@iutech.den.mmc.com);Image Sequence Description using Spatiotemporal Flow Curves:;Toward Motion-Based Recognition;;W. Brent Seales, Ph.D. 1991;(seales@dcs.uky.edu);Appearance Models of Three-Dimensional;Shape for Machine Vision and Graphics;;W. Harry Plantinga, Ph.D. 1988;(whp@wheaton.edu);The Asp: A Continuous, Viewer-Centered Object Representation;for Computer Vision;;Charles V. Stewart, Ph.D. 1988;(stewart@cs.rpi.edu);Connectionist Models of Stereo Vision;; Bradley P. Kjell, Ph.D. 1985;(kjell@ccsua.ctstateu.edu);Oriented Edge Separation Texture Measures;Links of Interest;My Bookmarks;"
"CS 302 Fall 1996 - Section 2;CS 302 Fall 1996 - Section 2;Algebraic Language Programming - C++;Instructor: Dave Zimmermann;Email: dzimm@cs.wisc.edu;Class Meeting Time/Place: 9:55-10:45 MWF, 455 Noland;Office: CS 1306;Office Phone: 262-6601;Office Hours: 2:30-3:30 T, 11:30-12:30 Th;ANNOUNCEMENTS;Program 4 due on Wednesday, October 23;Program 5 ready and due on Friday, November 1;General Course Information;CS 302 Home Page;Course Objectives;Vectra Lab;CS 302 Consultants;Syllabus;Working from Home;Class Handouts;Programs;Exams and Quizzes;Lecture Notes;Greg Sharp's Style Guide;Grades (Referenced by last 4 digits of your ID number);Quizzes;Programs;Exams;Policy Information;Email Policy;Grading Policy;Late Policy;Academic Misconduct Policy;Text; Problem Solving with C++ - The Object of Programming by Walter Savitch;Addison-Wesley Publishing Company, 1996.; List of known errata;Last modified:;Sat Aug 31, 1996,;Dave Zimmermann;(dzimm@cs.wisc.edu);Based on Greg Sharp's cs302 home page;"
"WELCOME MY FRIENDS, WELCOME TO THE MACHINE;We appreciate your patience while we go through the long, arduous;task of bringing you a better Home Page.;Check out my education...;Curriculum Vitae;Check out the class I'm teaching...;CS 302 Home Page;CS 302 Section 2 Home Page;"
"Eric Hazen's Home Page;Eric J. Hazen;Non-Professor;Room 1334 Computer Sciences;1210 West Dayton St.;Madison, WI 53706;263-2644;I am currently working for;Net Scout Services, a project of;InterNIC. Wait! Wait!;We are not a part of;Registration Services.;We couldn't help you with your domain name problems even if we wanted to.;InterNIC does a lot of neat things with all its;NSF and NSI money and Net Scout;is one of those things. We are located in the;Computer Sciences Department at the;University of;Wisconsin at Madison. Seeing as how I could never explain what Net Scout does;as elegantly as our fearless leader,;Susan Calcari, check out the;Net Scout web page for an official;explanation. I do some design and maintenance on our web site and email list, the;Scout Report. I also assist;Pete DeVries with;tech support for our 5 macs, 1 PC and 2 UNIX machines.;Before coming to Net Scout, I spent two and a half years at the;Laboratory of Molecular Biology.;Most of that time I was a full time student as well. At Molecular Biology, I was what;we called a Technical Support Assistant/Digital Video Specialist. Which meant I had;to run around fixing people's broken mice and answering email questions most of the time,;but when I was lucky, I got to make cool videos. If you are interested in using digital video;for instructional purposes, check out my;Multimedia Services web page.;I am a graduate of the University of Wisconsin's;Philosophy program,;which makes me a philosopher (and a real hot commodity in this capitalist society).;I also completed the requirements for the pre-med curriculum which makes me a;shameless pragmatist. So why am I here at the Computer Science Department? Email;me and we'll talk about it - It's been a while since I've had a good metaphysical;discussion.;Here are some links that serve no practical purpose, but they make;this page look more standard:; My resume (not up-to-date);; My multimedia page at Molecular Biology - explains how I made my animations (which have been; shown all over the world and are a big hit among drosophila geneticists, I'm told.);; My wonderful girlfriend, Amy's page;Salon Magazine - entertaining and informative ezine; created and run completely on macs.;; Laurie; Anderson's Green Room - if you have Shockwave, check out ""Here""; Kudon's page;Link to the All-Knowing;Witness - A; QuickTimeVR Documentary about the plight of Bosnia's uprooted population;; The; Billie Holiday Homepage;The National; Security Archives - check out the Nixon/Presley meetings;ejhazen@facstaff.wisc.edu;Last Modified 10/28/96;"
"Tina Eliassi-Rad's Home Page;Tina Eliassi-Rad;;MS, University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign, 1995;BS, University of Wisconsin, Madison, 1993;Office: 6357 CS Bldg;Phone: 262-7784;eliassi@cs.wisc.edu;"
"Eric's Home Page;;""Passsth me another cold Budweisther !!""; Address;;Computer Sciences Department;University of Wisconsin - Madison;1210 West Dayton Street;Madison, WI 53706;Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering;University of Wisconsin - Madison;1415 Johnson Drive;Madison, WI 53706; Office; 3652 ECE; Phone; (608) 265-3826; E-mail;;ericro@cs.wisc.edu; Research Area; Computer Architecture; Advisor; Professor J.E. Smith;Research Topics; Kestrel (Multiscalar) Project; Instruction-Level Parallelism (ILP); High Bandwidth Instruction Fetch Mechanisms; Branch Prediction Confidence, Branch Mispredict Tolerance;Publications:;""Trace Cache: a Low Latency Approach to High Bandwidth Instruction Fetching"",; Eric Rotenberg, Steve Bennett, and James E. Smith,; To appear in Proceedings of the 29th Annual International Symposium on; Microarchitecture, December 1996.; ""Assigning Confidence to Conditional Branch Predictions"",; Erik Jacobsen, Eric Rotenberg, and James E. Smith,; To appear in Proceedings of the 29th Annual International Symposium on; Microarchitecture, December 1996.; ""Trace Cache: a Low Latency Approach to High Bandwidth Instruction Fetching"",; Eric Rotenberg, Steve Bennett, and James E. Smith,; University of Wisconsin - Madison Technical Report #1310, April 1996.; Resume;"
"Babak Falsafi's Home Page; Babak Falsafi;Research Assistant;Department of Computer Sciences;University of Wisconsin - Madison;1210 West Dayton Street;Madison, WI 53706 USA;Tel: (608) 262-6618 FAX: 262-9777;email: falsafi@cs.wisc.edu; My work here; People;Mentor;Cult;Research Interests; Computer Architecture; Performance Evaluation and Measurement of Computer Systems; Parallel Programming Models;Education; MS Computer Sciences,; University of Wisconsin, Madison, December 1991.; BS Computer Sciences,; SUNY at Buffalo, June 1990.; BS Electrical and Computer Engineering,; SUNY at Buffalo, June 1990.; Miscellaneous; Publications; I would rather be drinking this; I would rather be doing this; I would rather be reading this; I would rather be listening to this; What I used to do when I was in high school;;When ideas you like fail?;;When you morf Shubu with Dionosi?;;Hillarious and profane phone conversations; Check out the American/French queen!; What do computer architects look like?; Hacking partners in crime; A next generation parallel computer; Last updated by babak@cs.wisc.edu;"
"CS 525 - Linear Programming Methods; CS 525 - Linear Programming Methods; General Course Information;This course is offered each Fall and Spring semester.; CS 525 Pages of the Various Instructors;; Michael C. Ferris (Spring '97);; O.L. Mangasarian (Fall '96);; Graduate MP Courses at Wisconsin;; CS 719 Network Flows;; CS 720 Integer Programming;; CS 726 Nonlinear Programming Theory;; CS 730 Nonlinear Programming Algorithms;; CS 733 Computational Large Sparse Systems;;Last modified: January 25, 1996;"
"CS 719, Spring 1996; CS 719: Network Flows;Spring 1996; Schedule; Lecture: 8:50 - 9:40 MWF, 1263 CS&S; Course E-mail: cs719-1list@cs.wisc.edu; No class: Friday, February 23, 1996.; Instructor:; Michael C. Ferris; Office: 6391 CS&S; Telephone: 262-4281; E-mail: ferris@cs.wisc.edu; Office Hours: 11:00 - 12:00 Mondays and Wednesdays; Teaching Assistant:; Lee Yuh-Jye; Office: 1307 CS&S; Telephone: 262-0662; E-mail: leey@cae.wisc.edu; Office Hours: 2:30 - 4:00 Tuesdays and Thursdays; Required Text:; Network Flows, Ravindra K. Ahuja, Thomas Magnanti and James Orlin, Prentice Hall.; Other Useful Texts:; Linear Programming, V. Chvatal, Freeman, 1980.; Linear Network Optimization, D. Bertsekas, MIT Press, 1991.; General Course Information; Course Overview;; Paths, Trees and Cycles (Data Structures); Shortest Paths; Max Flow; Min Cost; Network Simplex Method; Generalized Flows (Convex, equilibria); Lagrangian Relaxation; Multicommodity Flows; Applications;;; Prerequisite CS 525 or Knowledge of Linear Programming; Grading; Homework assignments: 40% of grade; Project assignment:;; 20% of grade; Due: Wednesday, May 1, 1996, in class.;; Final examination:;; 40% of grade; Monday, May 13, 1996, 10:05-12:05 in CS 1289.; Closed book, except 2 sheets of paper allowed.;; Representative Questions; Assignments;; Homework 5 (due Friday March 1, 1996).;; Homework 6 (due Friday March 8, 1996).;; Homework 7 (due Friday March 22, 1996).;; Homework 8 (due Friday March 29, 1996).;; Homework 9 (due Monday April 8, 1996).;; Homework 10 (due Monday April 15, 1996).;; Homework 11 (due Friday April 26, 1996).;; Homework 12 (due Friday May 3, 1996).;; Computing Information; Unix Orientation sessions, for first-time unix users and; novice Unix users who have not previously used the CSL Unix; workstations will be held:; Monday - Thursday the first week of classes:; 4 and 6 pm; room 1221 CS&S; Monday - Thursday the second week of classes:; 4 pm; room 1221 CS&S; Orientation sessions last 60-90 minutes.;; Introduction to UNIX at UW; To set up your login so that you have access to GAMS:; > cp ~cs719-1/public/.cshrc.local ~/.cshrc.local; > source ~/.cshrc.local; This alters your path and sets up the GAMS directory appropriate; for solaris machines on it.; Course Machines SOL lab, 1370 CS&S;; Mathematical Programming at UW;; Home Page;; Courses; This page was updated January 22, 1996;"
"CS 733, Spring 1996; CS 733 (Also ECE and MATH):;Computational Methods for Large Sparse Systems;Spring 1996; Schedule; Lecture: 9:55 - 10:45 MWF, 1263 CS&S; Course E-mail: cs733-1list@cs.wisc.edu; No class: Friday, February 26, 1996.; Instructor:; Michael C. Ferris; Office: 6391 CS&S; Telephone: 262-4281; E-mail: ferris@cs.wisc.edu; Office Hours: 11:00 - 12:00 Mondays and Wednesdays; Teaching Assistant:; Lee Yuh-Jye; Office: 1307 CS&S; Telephone: 262-0662; E-mail: leey@cae.wisc.edu; Office Hours: 2:30 - 4:00 Tuesdays and Thursdays; Recommended Textbooks:; Matrix Computations, G. Golub and C. Van Loan, Johns Hopkins;University Press, Second Edition, 1991.; Direct Methods for Sparse Matrices,;I.S. Duff, A.M. Erisman and J.K. Reid,;Oxford Science Publications, 1990.; Finite-Dimensional Vector Spaces,;P.R. Halmos,;Springer Verlag, 1974.; General Course Information; Course Overview;; Introduction: storage schemes.; Gaussian elimination: dense, error analysis, sparse.; Local pivotal strategies.; Matrix modifications.; Iterative linear solvers.; Sparse least squares.; Sparse nonlinear equations.; Optimization applications.; Parallel techniques.; Eigenvalue and eigenvectors.;; Prerequisite (CS 367, 412 and Math 340) or; (CS 367 and ECE 416) or; (Consent of Instructor).;; Grading; Homework assignments: 40% of grade; Project assignment:;; 30% of grade; Due: Wednesday, May 1, 1996, in class.;; Final examination:;; 30% of grade; Monday, May 13, 1996, 2:45-4:45 in CS 1263.; Closed book, except 2 sheets of paper allowed.;; Representative Questions; Assignments;; Homework 4 (due Monday February 26, 1996).;; Homework 5 (due Friday March 1, 1996).;; Homework 6 (due Friday March 8, 1996).;; Homework 7 (due Friday March 22, 1996).;; Homework 8 (due Friday March 29, 1996).;; Homework 9 (due Monday April 8, 1996).;; Homework 10 (due Monday April 15, 1996).;; Homework 11 (due Friday April 26, 1996).;; Homework 12 (due Friday May 3, 1996).;; Other Handouts;; IEEE Arithmetic handout.;; Sparse QR handout.;; Computing Information; Course Machines SOL lab, 1370 CS&S;; Unix Orientation sessions, for first-time unix users and; novice Unix users who have not previously used the CSL Unix; workstations will be held:; Monday - Thursday the first week of classes:; 4 and 6 pm; room 1221 CS&S; Monday - Thursday the second week of classes:; 4 pm; room 1221 CS&S; Orientation sessions last 60-90 minutes.;; Introduction to UNIX at UW;; Instructions to set up MATLAB; Mathematical Programming at UW;; Home Page;; Courses; This page was updated January 22, 1996;"
"Home Page of Michael C. Ferris;Michael C. Ferris; Associate Professor of Computer Sciences and Industrial Engineering;and member of the Center for the Mathematical Sciences; Computer Sciences Department; University of Wisconsin; 1210 West Dayton Street; Madison, WI 53706; Telephone: (608) 262-4281; Fax: (608) 262-9777; Email: ferris@cs.wisc.edu;Ph.D., University of Cambridge, 1989;Interests:;The theory, algorithms, and applications of mathematical programming; Research Summary;I am looking at robust methods for solving large-scale variational;inequality and nonlinear programming problems with applications to;problems in economics and engineering. Pivotal and path-following;techniques are being investigated, based on successive linearization,;with emphasis on numerical properties for large-scale problems and;interfaces to modeling languages. Particular applications being;considered include economic equilibria and the effects of taxation on;carbon emissions, traffic congestion and the effects of tolling,;structural optimization, contact problems and chemical process design.;I have been considering the use of parallel architectures for solving;problems in nonlinear optimization. The use of graph partitioning;techniques to determine underlying structure is being investigated as;a tool for general purpose parallel optimization. Techniques for;exploiting parallel machines directly from within modeling systems are;also under consideration, with prototypes using the condor system.;Extensions of the complementarity framework are also being;investigated, with emphasis on identifying and exploiting underlying;model structure.; Publications;Complete list of papers, mostly electronically available.; Other Relevant Links;CPNET: Complementarity Problem Net;Mathematical Prgramming at UW Home Page;CS 525;CS 726;CS 733; This page was updated January 31, 1996.;"
"David J. Finton's Home Page; David J. Finton; finton@cs.wisc.edu; Computer Sciences Department; University of Wisconsin-Madison; 1210 West Dayton Street; Madison, WI 53706; (608) 262-9275;Welcome to my page! I'm a grad student / research;nerd;in artificial;intelligence;here at the;University of Wisconsin-Madison.;I grew up in;Grand Rapids, Michigan,;(which is the;Late Show's;ex-Home Office),;earned a degree in;math at Michigan State,;and a master's in;computer science;here at the UW.;I'm now a dissertator at this;institution,;after taking a little over a year to develop traffic measurements software;for;AT&T;after my first thesis advisor left Wisconsin.;When I'm not at my trusty;NeXTstation;or the library, I enjoy;playing trumpet and piano, listening to;""longhair music"",;playing volleyball with the;InterVarsity;folks, and contributing to the SuperSoaker arms race.;If you have any comments about my pages, feel free to use my;comment form,;or just send me e-mail.;Or finger my account;to see my current plan and whether I'm on the system.;Gainful employment:;I am a TA for;CS 540,;Introduction to Artificial Intelligence.;Current Project:;If computers are so smart, why do we have to understand them?;Making machines more;intelligent;is the goal of Artificial Intelligence. To me, the essence of intelligence;is the ability to learn and adapt, to learn to act;appropriately in order to reach our goals.;Reinforcement learning treats this problem in the general case where;the system has outputs to control actions that can change its environment,;and it has inputs through which it senses its environment. It also has an input;for reinforcement, which is a weak kind of feedback which can be expressed as;a positive or negative number. So, instead of having a teacher to present the;system with input/output pairs, the system instead receives ""thumbs up"" or;""thumbs down"" at irregular intervals.;My work has focussed on how the need to;distinguish good actions from bad ones can direct the process of building a;good representation of the environment in terms of relevant, or;important features. (See my note on;importance-based;feature extraction). Currently I am applying this notion of;importance to the problem of learning to balance the need to;explore the world with the need to perform optimally (exploration vs. exploitation).;I am also investigating ways of using importance to make the learning;process more efficient by allowing the system to specify the starting points for;its learning experiments;(active learning). My goal is to develop a better understanding of intelligent;adaptation. I hope that this will provide a basis for intelligent action which;will also benefit from knowledge-based and task-based work. See my (really;out-of-date, sorry!);reinforcement learning page;for more information.;My Hotlist;This is;my browser-independent hotlist. I keep a copy here so I can;access it from any of the browser/platform combinations I use.;It's actually my Bookmarks file from;OmniWeb,;which is a;more elegant and more functional browser than Netscape, in my opinion. OmniWeb;is currently only available for NEXTSTEP, but will be available for;all the;OpenStep;variants when OpenStep is released.;My Editorial Pages:;My;response;to the Jehovah's Witnesses on the deity of Christ;Wisconsin Sites:;; InterVarsity Graduate Fellowship, University of Wisconsin-Madison; Check out the;weather;in the City of Madison; WISC-TV's;Star Trek page;has programming information and links to other pages.; The ISTHMUS Daily Page;Some of My Favorite Places to Visit:;The Web Nebulae, and;; NASA pictures; The World Wide Study Bible, and;; CrossSearch; The F-Minor Glenn Gould Homepage; The Farside Daily; Star Trek and;; Star Trek: Voyager;Enter;; The Dilbert Zone;Roam the world with;; The Virtual Tourist; Stereograms!; How To Tell If Your Head's About To Blow Up; A true NeXT-head showing what he thinks of Bill Gates.;And now, a word from;; my sponsor.;Last modified: October 31, 1996;finton@cs.wisc.edu;"
"CS 701, Fall 1996; CS 701: Construction of Compilers;Fall 1996; Schedule; Lecture: 9:30 - 10:45 TuTh, 1263 CSST; Instructor:; Charles N. Fischer; Office: 5397 CS&S; Telephone: 262-6635; E-mail: fischer@cs.wisc.edu; Office Hours: 1:00 - 2:00 Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, or by appointment; Teaching Assistant:; Krishna Kunchithapadam; Office: 1351 CS&S; Telephone: 263-1938; E-mail: krisna@cs.wisc.edu; Office Hours: 11:00 - 12:00 Tuesdays and Thursdays, or by appointment;; Programming Assignments and Homeworks;; Readings;; What's New (Check this regularly); General Course Information; Course Overview; Key Dates; Grades;; Examinations;; Links of Interest;"
"Home Page of Charles N. Fischer;;&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp&nbspCharles N. Fischer;&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp&nbspProfessor of Computer Sciences;&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp&nbsp&nbspUniversity of Wisconsin; Computer Sciences Department; University of Wisconsin; 1210 W. Dayton St.; Madison, WI 53706-1685; Telephone: (608) 262-6635; Messages: (608) 262-1204; Fax: (608) 262-9777; Email: fischer@cs.wisc.edu; Teaching;This semester I'm teaching;CS 701,;the graduate course in compilers.;In the spring I'll be teaching;CS 536,;the undergraduate course in compilers.; Research;My research interests focus on compiler design and implementation.;Recently, I've been interested in how to best exploit the enormous;capabilities provided by modern computer architectures.;Some of the issues my students and I have investigated include:;Code scheduling is important to avoid unnecessary pipeline delays. We have;investigated issues in;optimally scheduling arithmetic expressions.;The dominant model for global (procedure-level) register allocation is graph coloring.;Is this the best model?;Maybe not.;Other models;that explicitly quantify the likelihood and benefit of register;residence are very attractive.;Careful register allocation is vital in generating code -- unnecessary loads;and stores must be avoided.;The ultimate in register allocation is; interprocedural register allocation in which all the;procedures of a program are analyzed.;We have studied;interprocedural allocation models;that optimally;allocate register among procedures in polynomial time.;What's more, the approach seems to be effective in practice.;Anyone who codes in C or C++ knows how easy it is to make mistakes.;Errors involving pointers and array indices are especially common.;We have studied ways to;automatically check all pointer and array operations;at run-time on shared-memory multiprocessor workstations.;Using one processor to run a program and another to monitor the program,;it is possible to routinely check programs as they execute, with little or;no apparent slowdown.; Recent Publications;""Minimum Cost Interprocedural Register Allocation,"";Steven M. Kurlander and Charles N. Fischer,;POPL '96: The 23rd ACM SIGPLAN-SIGACT Symposium on Principles of Programming;Languages,;January, 1996.;""Low-cost, Concurrent Checking of Pointer and Array Accesses in C Programs,"";Harish Patil and Charles N. Fischer,;to appear in;Software--Practice and Experience.;;""Demand-Driven Register Allocation,"";Todd A. Proebsting and Charles N. Fischer,;to appear in;ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems.;;""Efficient Instruction Scheduling for Delayed-Load Architectures,"";Steven M. Kurlander, Todd A. Proebsting and Charles N. Fischer,;ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems,;Vol 17, No. 5, 740-776, (1995).;""Zero-cost Range Splitting,"";Steven M. Kurlander and Charles N. Fischer,;SIGPLAN '94 Conference on Programming Language Design and Implementation,;June, 1994.;Other Activities;A new, completely revised second edition of;;""Crafting a Compiler,"";co-authored with;;Ron Cytron;and;;Richard J. LeBlanc, Jr.;is almost complete.;It will be published by;;Benjamin/Cummings.;Look for it soon at better bookstores everywhere.;I am the ""Short Communications"" Editor for;;ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems;(TOPLAS).;Education;Ph.D.,;;Cornell University,;1974;""On Parsing Context-Free Languages in Parallel Environments,"";supervised by John H. Williams.;Ph.D Students;Donn R. Milton,;""Syntactic Specification and Analysis with Attributed Grammars,"";July 1977.;Bruce R. Rowland,;""Semantic Attribute Evaluation During Syntactic Analysis,"";July 1977.;Stephen K. Skedzielewski,;""Definition and Use of Attribute Reevaluation in Attributed Grammars,"";September 1978.;Bernard A. Dion,;""Locally Least-Cost Error Correctors for Context-Free and Context-Sensitive;Parsers,"";December 1978.;Mahadevan Ganapathi,;""Retargetable Code Generation and Optimization Using Attribute Grammars,"";November 1980.;Vimal Begwami,;""A New Approach for Attribute Evaluation and Error Correction in Compilers,"";August 1982.;Jon Mauney,;""Least-cost Syntactic Error Correction Using Extended Right Context,"";January 1983.;Gregory F. Johnson,;""Context Sensitive Attribute Flow,"";August 1983.;Anil Pal,;""Generating Execution Facilities for Integrated Programming Environments,"";December 1986.;William H. Winsborough,;""Automatic, Transparent Parallelization of Logic Programs at Compile Time,"";August 1988.;G A Venkatesh,;""A Framework for Specification and Implementation of Program Analysis Algorithms,"";August 1989.;;Todd A. Proebsting,;""Code Generation Techniques,"";August 1992.;Steve Kurlander,;""Approaches to Interprocedural Register Allocation,"";January 1996.;Harish Patil,;""Efficient Program Monitoring Techniques,"";June 1996.;"
"Shaun Flisakowski;Shaun Flisakowski;Research Associate;Department of Computer Sciences;University of Wisconsin - Madison;1210 West Dayton St - Rm 7360;Madison, WI 53706;Work Phone: (608)-263-6623;Home Phone: (608)-238-8069;email: flisakow@cs.wisc.edu; Work;I work on the Coral project.;It's a deductive (logic-based) database system similar to Prolog. I hope to;be wrapping up some changes soon, and have it move into the background (with;me remaining its main maintainer).;I've starting getting involved with the;DEVise project,;a package for examining large quantities of data in a visual fashion.; Class;This semester (my last) I'm doing a Master's project. I'm going to be;cleaning-up/rewriting Minibase. Minibase is a simple database;intended for instructional use in mid-level database classes. The;students will rewrite a section of it at a time, compiling their section;with the rest of program, so that they always have a working version of;the database.; Projects (and other programming stuff I have available);I am (very slowly) working on a C lexer/parser with a symbol and type table.;The latest beta version is available as; ctree-0.03.tar.gz. My intent in writing it was to create a C parsing library that;could be used as a basis for creating source-transforming tools. As is, it;still has quite a way to go, but some people seem to find it useful for their;own purposes.;LaserPoint is distributing a;game of mine, Patience, a set of 25 card games for Windows.;Miscellaneous Small Things;callstk.tar.gz:;A set of C++ classes that keep track of the call stack and program trace;with minimum hassle.;wire.tar.gz:;A simple X-based wire framer.;self.tar.gz:;A program that assists in making other programs capable of printing themselves.;(Pure silliness.); Play; I've started investing in;Borland stock,;you should as well before it jumps back up as a result of;Delphi's; tremendous success.;You can also take a look at how Borland;has been performing in the past.;Track the movements of your favorite electrical engineer and his dog on the;Dilbert Page.; My Bookmark's.; Suggested Reading;Snow Crash: Neal Stephenson;The Diamond Age*: Neal Stephenson;Zodiac: Neal Stephenson;Permutation City: Greg Egan;Quarantine: Greg Egan;Resurrection Man: Sean Stewart;* - Hugo Winner;Mail me at:; flisakow@cs.wisc.edu;"
"Galileo/SCI Home Page;The Galileo and SCI Projects at Wisconsin;Table of contents;Galileo;Project description;Publications;Related projects;SCI at Wisconsin;Project description;Publications;Project Members;Galileo at Wisconsin;Galileo is a project being conducted in the;computer architecture group;at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. Our project focuses on the medium-;to long-term evolution of processor and system architectures, with an emphasis;on the memory system. Specifically, we are studying what the;relationship between the processor and main memory will be in future;systems: completely separate, as today, or integrated (and if so, to what extent).;Processing capability and bit storage may merge in at least two ways.;Because of increasing off-chip penalties (in issuable instructions) and/or;limited off-chip bandwidth, designers may place more and more capacity;on the processor chip and module, until eventually a sizable fraction;of main memory resides on-chip (represented by the arrow labeled MOP;in the above diagram). A different possibility is the migration of;processor capability onto the DRAM chips themselves, eventually;obviating the central processor (see the IRAM arrow above).;Our specific research currently focuses on the following areas:;Examining the performance impact of large memory latencies and;limited memory bandwidth in current and future microprocessor-based systems;Performance modeling of the various design points along the;processor/memory (P/M) integration spectrum;Cache hierarchy design for P/M integrated systems;Design of main memory banks in a P/M integrated system;Program execution in systems with multiple integrated chips;(DataScalar architectures);Galileo-specific publications:;Exploiting Optical Interconnects to Eliminate Serial Bottlenecks;Doug Burger and James R. Goodman.;Appears in the 3rd International Conference on Massively Parallel Processing Using Optical Interconnects, October, 1996.;DataScalar Architectures and the SPSD Execution Model;Doug Burger, Stefanos Kaxiras, and James R. Goodman.;University of Wisconsin-Madison Computer Sciences Department Technical Report 1317, July, 1996.;Quantifying Memory Bandwidth Limitations of Current and Future Microprocessors;Doug Burger, James R. Goodman, and Alain Kägi.;Appears in the 23rd International Symposium on Computer Architecture, May, 1996.;The Declining Effectiveness of Dynamic Caching for General-Purpose Microprocessors;Douglas C. Burger, James R. Goodman, and Alain Kägi.;University of Wisconsin-Madison Computer Sciences Department Technical Report 1261, January, 1995.;Related projects:;IRAM - UC-Berkeley;PPRAM - Kyushu Univeristy, Japan;SCI at Wisconsin;Our group is also closely involved with research relating to cache-coherent;shared-memory multiprocessor design, specifically studying the Scalable Coherent;Interface coherence and transport layers.;We are using SCI, which is an IEEE standard (1596-1992), as a base platform for;the exploration of our ideas.;The SCI standard specifies a linked-list based hardware coherence protocol,;which includes support for efficient synchronization primitives;(Queue On Lock Bit, or QOLB), as;well as optimizations for different sharing patterns, such as;pairwise-sharing and fresh read-sharing. The standard also includes a definition;for an extremely high-bandwidth (1 GB/s), low latency transport layer in between;processing elements or individual clusters.;We are currently performing SCI-related research on the following topics:;Extending SCI with logarithmically-growing sharing structures;Efficient hardware synchronization for shared-memory multiprocessors;A scalability study of the base SCI protocol, including its standard extensions;Aggressive consistency models for shared-memory multiprocessors;Wisconsin SCI Publications:;The GLOW Cache Coherence Protocol Extensions for Widely Shared Data;Stefanos Kaxiras and James R. Goodman.;To appear in the proceedings of the 10th ACM International Conference on Supercomputing, May, 1996.;Kiloprocessor Extensions to SCI;Stefanos Kaxiras.;To appear in the proceedings of the 10th International Parallel Processing Symposium, April, 1996.;Techniques for Reducing Overheads of Shared-Memory Multiprocessing;Alain Kägi, Nagi Aboulenein, Douglas C. Burger, and James R. Goodman.;Appears as ""Best Architecture Paper"" in the proceedings of the 9th ACM;International Conference on Supercomputing, July, 1995.;Also University of Wisconsin-Madison Computer Sciences Department TR #1266, May, 1995.;Simulation of the SCI Transport Layer on the Wisconsin Wind Tunnel;Douglas C. Burger and James R. Goodman.;In the proceedings of the Second International Workshop on SCI-based High-Performance Low-Cost Computing, March, 1995.;Also University of Wisconsin-Madison Computer Sciences Department Technical Report 1265, March, 1995.;Hierarchical Extensions to SCI;James R. Goodman and Stefanos Kaxiras.;University of Wisconsin-Madison Computer Sciences Department Technical Report 1235, July 1994.;Extending the Scalable Coherent Interface for Large-Scale Shared-Memory;Ross Evan Johnson.;University of Wisconsin-Madison Computer Sciences Department Technical Report 1136, February 1993.;Hardware Support for Synchronization in the Scalable Coherent Interface (SCI);Nagi M. Aboulenein, Stein Gjessing, James R. Goodman, and Philip J. Woest.;University of Wisconsin-Madison Computer Sciences Department Technical Report 1117, November 1992.;Interconnect Topologies with Point-to-Point Rings;Ross E. Johnson and James R. Goodman.;University of Wisconsin-Madison Computer Sciences Department Technical Report 1058, December 1991.; Analysis of the SCI Ring;Steven L. Scott, James A. Goodman, and Mary K. Vernon.;University of Wisconsin-Madison Computer Sciences Department Technical Report 1055, November 1991.;Lower Bounds on Latency for Scalable Linked-List Cache Coherence;Ross Johnson.;University of Wisconsin-Madison Computer Sciences Department Technical Report 1029, June 1991.;An Analysis of Synchronization Mechanisms in Shared-Memory Multiprocessors;Philip J. Woest and James R. Goodman.;University of Wisconsin-Madison Computer Sciences Department Technical Report 1005, February 1991.;A Set of Efficient Synchronization Primitives for a Large-Scale Shared-Memory Multiprocessor;James. R. Goodman, Mary. K. Vernon, Philip. J. Woest.;In the proceedings of the Third International Conference on Architectural Support for Programming Languages and Operating Systems, April, 1989.;Also University of Wisconsin-Madison Computer Sciences Department Technical Report 814.;Project participants:; Faculty; Jim Goodman; Graduate students; Doug Burger; Alain Kägi; Stefanos Kaxiras; Project alumni;Nagi Aboulenein;Ross Johnson;Steve Scott;Last modified: Fri Aug 2 09:12:00 1996 by Doug Burger;(dburger@cs.wisc.edu);"
"Andrew Geery's Home Page; Andrew Geery geery@cs.wisc.edu;1301 CS&S; 1210 West Dayton Street; Madison, WI 53706; (608) 262-6600;1402 Regent St; Apt. #304; Madison, WI 53711; (608) 255-4026; B.A. from UW-Madison;in computer science May 1996; Currently working on M.S. in AI; T.A. for CompSci 132 (Grades); My schedule; Pontifications; People of Interest; Jacques Derrida and post-structuralism; Martin Heidegger; Albert Camus; Jean-Paul Sartre; Friedrich Nietzsche;"
"Chill Time with Elton; Elton Glaser; I can't think of anything cool to put here right now.; Home Address; 2737 Lynn Terrace #3; Madison, WI 53705; Office; CS&S 7388; Computer Sciences Department; University of Wisconsin - Madison; 1210 West Dayton Street; Madison, WI 53706; Phone; Home: (608) 231-0455 Office: 262-6628; E-mail; glaserea@cs.wisc.edu;;; Research & Academic Interests:; DNA Computation and other; theory stuff; with my advisor,; Anne Condon.; We've even published a; paper on DNA computation (along with Prof. Bach and Celena Tanguay).; Algorithms (including Genetic ones); Cellular Automata; Complex Systems; Evolutionary Theory & Population Biology; Computer Architecture; Other Interests:;; Dark beer; Basketball (the Love),; frisbee,; & volleyball; Backgammon; Good music (see below), good books, good movies; Surrealism; Survival; My Favorite Musics:; Classical composers:; Beethoven,; Debussy,; Ravel; Jazz greats:; Miles Davis,; John Coltrane,; Thelonious Monk; The hardest-working man in show business:; James Brown; Old but good:; Bob Dylan,; The Rolling Stones,; The Allman Brothers,; Jimi Hendrix; Grooves:; Beastie Boys,; A Tribe Called Quest,,; Brand New Heavies,; Digable Planets; Recent bands:; Public Enemy,; Smashing Pumpkins,; Pearl Jam,; Walt Mink; Other links of interest:; Red Hot and Cool Jazz,; Acid Jazz,; W & A's Record Reviews; Assorted fun stuff ...; Scott Adams' Dilbert page; Search engines/indices: Yahoo,; Excite,; Lycos,; AltaVista; Simpsons and; Animaniacs pages; ESPN's home page, the; NandOnet SportServer, and the; Cleveland Indians page; Gateway 2000's home page; Another page on complexity; My friend Jei's Anime Turnpike. Visit it -- he makes money; off of each hit.; This WWW page was brought to you by Frungy! The sport of kings!;"
"Jim Goodman's Home Page; James R. Goodman (goodman@cs.wisc.edu);Professor of Computer Sciences;Department of Computer Sciences;University of Wisconsin - Madison;1210 West Dayton Street;Madison, WI 53706 USA;Research Interests:; Lots of good stuff; Current Projects:; Galileo and SCI at Wisconsin; Last Updated: May 2, 1994;"
"CS 302 Fall 1996 - Sections 6 and 9;CS 302 Fall 1996 - Sections 6 and 9;Algebraic Language Programming in C++;Instructor: Greg Sharp;Email: greg@cs.wisc.edu;Office: CS&St 1307;Office Phone: (608)262-6602;Office Hours:;6:00pm-8:00pm Mon and 12:00pm-1:00pm Wed (or by appt.);Grader: Krishna Kunchithapadam;Email: krisna@cs.wisc.edu;General Course Information;CS 302 Home Page;Course Objectives;Vectra Lab;CS 302 Consultants;Syllabus;Course Difficulty;Working from Home;News;Startup Information;Class Notes;Homework;Exams and Quizzes;Style Guide;Email Archive;Policy Information;Email Policy;Grading Policy;Late Policy;Academic Misconduct Policy (YOU MUST READ THIS);Text;Problem Solving with C++: The Object of Porgramming;Walter Savitch;Addison-Wesley Publishing Company, 1996.;Please see this list of known;errata;Last modified:;Mon Sep 2 16:02:54 CDT 1996;by Greg Sharp;greg@cs.wisc.edu;| http://www.cs.wisc.edu/~greg/greg.html;"
"Greg Sharp Home Page;Greg Sharp Home Page;Name: Greg Sharp;Email: greg@cs.wisc.edu;Office: CS&St 1307;Office Phone: (608)262-6602;Office Hours:;6:00pm-8:00pm Mon and 12:00pm-1:00pm Wed (or by appt.);TGIF: Every Friday, from 4:30-5:15 in CS 2310.;CS Dept;CS 302;Section 6 & 9; CS 302 Instructors;Fall 1995 Lecture Notes |; Spring 1996 Lecture Notes;Classes Fall 1996;CS 764 Topics in Database Management Systems; CS 838-2; Finding Out About;Search Engines;Altavista |; DejaNews |; Excite |; Infoseek |; Lycos |; MetaCrawler |; Yahoo |;Usenet FAQ's;FTP Mirrors:; MIT |; AOL |; GWU;HTML format:; Ohio;C and C++;Programming in C;Learn C/C++ Today;The C++ Library;C++ Draft Standard (April 1995). Mirrors: Stanford | Cygnus;G++ FAQ; LIB G++ Info; STL Reference; Mumit's STL Newbie guide;Platform Independant GUI Libraries in C++; Portable GUI Development Kits FAQ;Amulet (OK); DCLAP; (strings attached/requires Motif); SUIT (strings attached); V (OK); wxWindows (OK); YACL (OK);Classes Spring 1996;CS 558 Introduction to Computational Geometry; CS 752; Computer Architecture I; CS 752: My Computer Architecture Project;CS 760 Machine Learning; CS 760: My Machine Learning Project;Classes Fall 1995;CS 513 Numerical Linear Algebra;"
"Guangshun's Home Page; Welcome to Guangshun's Home Page!;It's me !.; Graduate Student; Department of Computer Science; 1210 W. Dayton, Rm 7390; University of Wisconsin - Madison; Madison , WI 53705; USA;Phone: (608)231-0592 (home) (608)262-6629 (office); Education; University of Wisconsin - Madison; California State University - Los Angeles; Peking University , Physics Department Grade88; Research Interests:; Database Management Systems; Advisers:; Raghu Ramakrishnan; Miron Livny; Projects:; Data Analysis project with family medicine; DEVise A Data Exploration via Visualization Environment; Classes:; cs739; cs764; cs838; Interesting hot links.; Fun Stuff; Computer Related; Career Planning; Chinese Related; Miscellany; Send me email; Weather Forecast for Madison.;You are visitor since June 26, 1996.;"
"Guhan Viswanathan's Home Page; Guhan Viswanathan (gviswana@cs.wisc.edu);Graduate Student;Department of Computer Sciences;University of Wisconsin - Madison;1210 West Dayton Street;Madison, WI 53706 USA;Advisor: Jim Larus; Thesis Research;My thesis focuses on the design and implementation of data-parallel;languages. I have been involved in the design of C**, a data-parallel;language (based on C++) developed locally. I have implemented a C**;compiler targeting the CM-5, and am investigating how data-parallel;applications can be executed as efficiently as hand-coded parallel;programs.;Here's a;more detailed research summary .;Here's a list of my; publications.; Useful links;;"
"Harit's Home Page.;Harit's Den;Hi. I am a Graduate student at;University of Wisconsin at Madison in the; Department of Computer Sciences .;Would you like to get a list of my; classmates?;Courses I'm taking in Fall '96:;; CS 564: Database Management Systems; -; Prof.Raghu Ramakrishnan;; CS 752: Advanced Computer Architecture I; -; Prof. Mark Hill;Courses I'm taking in Spring '97:;; CS 757: Advanced Computer Architecture II; -; Prof. James Goodman;I was an undergraduate student at the World-famous;;MVSR Engineering College;under OSMANIA University, Hyderabad, India.;;By the way, did you meet my; cat?;Here are some of the things that interest me:; Indian newspapers; Other Stuff (CNN,MTV,Sports,etc.); Sastry's Links; My Roommate's home page (SAEED MIRZA);; Murthy's hot links; Some;Zubber-Dust photos; Photographs of my UNIVERSITY;Warning: Click HERE only if you ARE ABOVE 18;years of age.;Bye folks.;This page has been accessed;;times since Sept. 8 1996 (counter courtesy; Web-Counter );This page has been accessed;;times since Sept. 8 1996.;My electronic mailing (e-mail) address is:; Harit@cs.wisc.edu.;"
"Rebecca Hasti's Home Page; Rebecca Hasti;Graduate Student/Research Assistant;Computer Sciences Department;University of Wisconsin - Madison;1210 W. Dayton St.;Madison, WI 53706-1685;Office: CS 5385;E-mail: hasti@cs.wisc.edu;Telephone: (608) 262-1079;Telephone: (608) 262-1204 (dept);To see my very first Java applet click here.;Fall 1996 Schedule:;CS 838 (IR) T R 8:30 - 9:45 3345 Engr;CS 838 (Java) T RF 1:00 - 2:15 168 Noland;PL Seminar R 4:00 2310 CS;MS Computer Sciences, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 1995;MA Mathematics, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 1994;BA Mathematics, Carleton College, 1990;Interests:;programming languages, AI, basketball, volleyball, softball...; Linkage; Last Updated: September 4, 1996;"
"CS302-13: Class Home Page, Fall '96;CS302; : Algebraic Language Programming in C++;Section 13, Fall 1996;TA: H. Chad Lane;[hcl@cs.wisc.edu];Announcements:; Program 7 is on-line and due Tues Nov 12.; IMPORTANT! You need to get the; new version of tribble.h (as of 11/4) before you compile. The; problem was that the enumerated types were not recognized outside of; the class. They must be declared inside the public section of the class.; As a result, the private section at the top needed to bumped down to the; private section at the bottom. This is shown in the new version.; Also note the definition of the RandomIntInRange() is; defined in-line so that you will not need a corresponding; function body in tribble.cpp. You can just call it from within the; class, and it will work.; In the file ""prog06.cpp"" I forgot to change the enumerated; type values to uppercase. You need to do this before you; compile everything. I have changed the; on-line copy of prog06.cpp if you just want to overwrite your; obsolete copy. Also, it used to say ""#include prog05.h"", so I changed; it to ""prog06.h""; You might also want to check the help link below again... something; was added.; Here are some Comments and; Suggestions for Program 6.; It is very important that you use the same name throughout; program 6 for the project parts (name of the project,; directory name, file names, etc.). I updated the program; description to be consistent with ""prog06."" If you saw; the old version (that used ""prog05""), please make sure; you are consistent with your naming. The only discrepency; is with the sample run in Chris Weaver's public directory; where it is called prog05, but this shouldn't matter for; your program (it is just a sample).; Program 6 is on-line and ready. It is crucial that you read; the entire assignment and understand class basics before you; attempt it, and that you get an early start. It is not; hard, but will require some time to piece everything; together. Bring questions to class on Tuesday!; About midterm grades for freshmen... you either got a B (which; means your doing fine), or a D (which means you're not doing so; great). It is a thumbs up or down grade, and means nothing more; than that. If you're not a freshman, disregard this.;Stuff For, From, and About class:; Tentative semester syllabus/reading assignments; Programming assignments; Handouts; Preparing for Quizzes and Tests; Old Quizzes & Tests w/solutions;Course Information & Policies:;Text:;Problem Solving with C++: The Object of Programming,; Walter Savitch,; Addison Wesley Publishing Company, Inc., 1996.; We meet in B139 Van Vleck on T Th, 1:00pm - 2:15pm.; Policies and Administrative Information:;;Grading Policy;Late Policy;E-mail Information;Attendance Policy;Academic Misconduct; Links to other 302 information:;; Introduction to Microsoft Windows (Do this first);; Introduction to Borland C++ 4.5 (Do this second); CS302 home page;; The Vectra Lab; Source code from the text; Who are; consultants and what do they do?; Extra C++; reference material; CS302 FAQ (many; of your questions will be answered here); Working from home;; Some very Sharp lecture notes;; A very Sharp style guide;Last Modified:;Wed Oct 30 16:00 CDT 1996;by H. Chad Lane;"
"Home Page for H. Chad Lane; [;ACADEMICS ·;TA: CS302 ·;PERSONAL INFO ·;NEAT STUFF ];Dept. of Computer Sciences;University of Wisconsin-Madison; 1210 West Dayton St.; Madison, WI 53706-1685; Dept. Phone: (608)262-1204;;e-mail:; Office Address:; Office Hours:; Office Phone:; Home Phone:; Fax:;hcl@cs.wisc.edu; 5364a CS&St; 10am - 11am, T Th; (608)262-5105; (608)250-9599; (608)262-9777;Welcome;Thanks for stopping by my web page, I do hope you enjoy it. Your best;bet for fun here will be in my links and fun stuff section.;The biggest news of my life right now is that I'm getting married on;May 24, 1997 to Nichole. Finally,;I just want to tell you good luck. We're all counting on you.;;Academics; Fall 1996 courses:;;CS838:; FOA: Information Retrieval and Other Technologies for; Seeking Information;CS564:; Database Management Systems;LING540 (audit):; Advanced Semantics;;Research Interests: AI,; Computational Linguistics, and Discourse Processing.;; Useful advice for doing research(from Jon Barwise); Epigrams in Programming(by Alan J. Perlis); Education:;; B.S. Mathematics and Computer Science, minor in Philosophy, cum; laude, May 1995, Truman; State University (formerly Northeast Missouri State; University).; M.S. Computer Sciences, expected May 1997,; University of Wisconsin-Madison.;;Personal Information;Who am I? Why am I here?;What does ""H."" stand for?;Neat Stuff (according to yours truly);Click on an image...;Cyber-poop; (a creation of my unabashed brother, Bart Arthur Lane).; Download Claude;(Claude is a psychotic DOS program that you can talk with);; Raise a plant via the Internet;; Deep Thoughts (by Jack Handy) (Reload for different ones);;Last Modified:;Mon Oct 28 20 :07:32 CDT 1996;by H. Chad Lane;"
"Susan Hert's Home Page; Susan E. Hert hert@cs.wisc.edu;Research Assistant; Department of Computer Sciences;University of Wisconsin-Madison;1210 W. Dayton St.;Madison,;WI 53706-1685;Telephone: (608) 262-5105; Curriculum Vita; (postscript); Research Interests; Publications; Software; Other Interesting Links; Research Interests; Applied and Experimental Computational Geometry; Analysis of Algorithms; Design of Motion Planning Algorithms; Computer Graphics for Geometric Algorithms; Advisor: V;ladimir Lumelsky;Currently, I work in the;UW Robotics Lab developing motion planning alogirthms for multiple;robots in a common environment.; Selected Publications; Susan Hert, Vladimir Lumelsky,; ""Deforming Curves in the Plane for Tethered-Robot Motion Planning"".; (An; extended abstract of this paper appeared in Proceedings of; 1996 Canadian Conference on Computational Geometry, August 1996.); Susan Hert, Vladimir Lumelsky,; ""Planar Curve Routing for Tethered-Robot Motion Planning""; to appear in International Journal of Computational Geometry &; Applications.; Susan Hert, Vladimir Lumelsky,; ""The Ties that Bind: Motion Planning for Multiple Tethered Robots"",; Robotics and Autonomous Systems 17 (1996) 187-215.; (A version of this paper was published in; Proc. 1994 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and; Automation , May 1994.); Susan Hert, Sanjay Tiwari, and Vladimir Lumelsky,; ""A Terrain-Covering Algorithm for an AUV"", to appear in; Journal of Autonomous Robots Special Issue on Autonomous Underwater; Robots .; Susan Hert, Vladimir Lumelsky,; ""Moving Multiple Tethered Robots between Arbitrary Configurations"",; Proc. 1995 International Conference on Intelligent Robots and; Systems , August 1995.; Susan Hert, Dan Reznik,; ""The Simulation Library: A Basis for Animation Programs (Version 2.0)""; , Technical Report RL-95002,; University of Wisconsin-Madison, Robotics Laboratory, July 1995.;Interesting Links; Computational Geometry Pages; Computer Science Education Links; Books on the Web;; Reference Shelf; The Library of Congress; The On-line Books Page; Travels with Samantha; Cooking on the Web;; Epicurious; Veggies Unite!;"
"Kirk Hogenson; Kirk Hogenson;Graduate Student;Computer Sciences Department;University of Wisconsin - Madison;1210 W. Dayton St.;Madison, WI 53706;Office: CS&S 6387;E-mail: hog@cs.wisc.edu;Telephone: (608) 262-5083; I am Kirk;Hogenson; I am a graduate student; at the UW-Madison in; Madison,; Wisconsin. I am in the; UW-CS Department.; I'm the TA for;CS310, Sections 304 and 305. My office hours are:; Tues 11:00 - 12:30; Wed 3:30 - 5:00;You can also look at my;schedule. If none of my office hours work;out for you, e-mail me and we'll try;to set up an appointment for some other time.; Here is what you can do:; finger me.; Send me some mail; Visit Ghana,; the country I was in while serving in the;; Peace Corps.; Why is my username hog?; Check out the; PNHP Student Group page, maintained by my wife, Eiluned.; Last Updated: Sep 2, 1996;"
"CS 536, Fall 1996; CS 536: Introduction to Programming Languages and Compilers;Spring 1996; Story of the Month;(new for October); Schedule; Lecture: 9:30 - 10:45 TuTh, 1221 Comp Sci & Stat; Recitation: 2:30 - 3:20 Tu, 107 Psychology; Instructor:; Susan Horwitz; Office: 5391 CS&S; Telephone: 262-7946; E-mail: horwitz@cs.wisc.edu; Office Hours: Tuesday 3:30 - 4:30; Friday 1:30 - 2:30; or by appointment; Teaching Assistant:; Rahul Kapoor; Office: 3360 CS&S; Telephone: 262-9275; E-mail: rahul@cs.wisc.edu; Office Hours: Monday and Wednesday 3:45 - 5:15; or by appointment; Texts on Reserve at Wendt Library:; Compilers Principles, Techniques, and Tools, Aho, Sethi, and Ullman.; Crafting a Compiler, Fischer and LeBlanc.;; What's New (Check this regularly); General Course Information; Course Overview; Key Dates; Information about assignments, exams, and grading (including late policy);; Getting Started;; Readings;; Programming Assignments and Homeworks;; Examinations;; Lecture Notes;; Useful Programming Tools;; Grades;; Email;; Links of Interest;"
"Susan B. Horwitz;Susan B. Horwitz;Professor;Computer Sciences Department;University of Wisconsin-Madison;1210 West Dayton Street;Madison, WI 53706-1685;USA;E-mail: horwitz@cs.wisc.edu;Telephone: (608) 262-7946;Secretary: (608) 262-0017;Department: (608) 262-1204;Fax: (608) 262-9777;Ph.D., Cornell University, 1985;Research interests:;language-based programming environments;program slicing, differencing, and merging;static analysis of programs;interprocedural dataflow analysis;Research Summary;My work mainly involves the design and implementation;of language-based programming tools that help programmers with problems like:; understanding how existing programs work, and how they would be affected;by proposed modifications;; understanding the textual, structural, and semantic differences between;two versions of a program;; retesting a program after changing it;; combining pieces of old programs to produce a new program, with certain;semantic guarantees.;This work has involved the use of a program representation called the;program dependence graph (PDG), and an operation called slicing.;I am also working on new algorithms for precise, interprocedural;dataflow analysis.;Previous work on interprocedural dataflow analysis mainly concentrated;either on efficient algorithms for specific individual problems,;or on (not necessarily efficient) algorithms for a general class of problems.;Thomas Reps, Mooly Sagiv, and I have developed and implemented a new;algorithm that is both efficient, and applies to a large class of problems.;Recent Publications;M. Shapiro and S. Horwitz,;Fast and accurate flow-insensitive points-to analysis,;To appear in Conference Record of the Twenty-Fourth ACM Symposium on;Principles of Programming Languages,;(Paris, France, January 1997).;S. Horwitz, T.Reps, and M. Sagiv,;Demand interprocedural dataflow analysis.;In Proceedings of the ACM SIGSOFT Symposium on the Foundations of Software;Engineering,;(Washington DC, October 1995).;M. Sagiv, T. Reps, and S. Horwitz,;Precise interprocedural dataflow analysis with applications to constant;propagation.;In Proceedings of the Sixth International Joint Conference on the Theory;and Practice of Software Development,;(Aarhus Denmark, May 1995).;T. Reps, M. Sagiv, and S. Horwitz,;Precise interprocedural dataflow analysis via graph reachability.;In Conference Record of the Twenty-Second ACM Symposium on Principles;of Programming Languages,;(San Francisco CA, January 1995).;S. Bates and S. Horwitz,;Incremental program testing using program dependence graphs.;In Conference Record of the Twentieth ACM Symposium on Principles;of Programming Languages,;(Charleston, SC, January 1993).;S. Horwitz and T. Reps,;The use of program dependence graphs in software engineering.;In Proceedings of the Fourteenth International Conference;on Software Engineering,;(Melbourne, Australia, May 1992).;S. Horwitz,;Identifying the semantic and textual differences between two versions of a;program.;In Proceedings of the SIGPLAN 90 Conference on Programming Language;Design and Implementation,;(White Plains, NY, June 1990).;Teaching; cs536;"
"Home Page for Sid Hummert's cs110, C++ sections;CS110; Instructor: Sid Hummert; How to contact me:; email: hummert@cs.wisc.edu; office: 1307, Computer Sciences and Statistics; office phone: 262-6602; home phone: 276-4477; Office Hours:;Monday 12:15-1:15;Thursday 3:00-4:00; Announcements:; Textbook;Problem solving with C++-- the object of programming by;Walter Savitch; Section Information:; 9:55-10:45a, MWF, Psych 138, Lec. 6; 11:00-11:50a, MWF, Psych 130, Lec. 10; Grades; Computer Lab; Rm. 1350, Computer Science and Statistics; Course Information:; Day 1 handout; What is 110 all about; Tentative Syllabus for semester; Late Policy; Grading Criteria; Academic Misconduct; Viewgraphs; Important software :;Introduction to Microsoft Windows;Hints for Windows Compilers;The Windows operating system;Email;Mosaic;Netscape; C++ information:;Introduction to Borland C++;The C++ language;The Savitch Text; Assignments:; Program 0 due Wed, Nov. 6; Program 1 due Fri, Nov. 15;"
Sid's Page;Sid's Page;Name: Sidney J. Hummert;Office: CS 1307;Phone: 262-6602 (office);Email: hummert@cs.wisc.edu;A postscript version of my resume.;Some pictures.;Click here to go to my cs110 page.;
"Igor Ivanisevic's Home Page;Igor;Ivanisevic;;This is me working on my newest project...;(disclaimer: I am not an alien nor do I speak for any aliens in particular);Needless to say this page is under construction;(if I ever feel like actually constructing it);but I already have 2 links and an e-mail up!;Research Interests:;Robotics, Vision Stuff, AI in general;Graduate Slave at:;University of Wisconsin CS Department;Was an undergrad at:;Drake University CS/Math Department;Address:;Computer Sciences Department;University of Wisconsin;1210 West Dayton Street;Madison, WI 53706;Office: CS&S 1304;Phone: (608) 262-6601;Home Phone: (608) 256-0816;E-mail:;iigor@cs.wisc.edu;iigor@cs.wisc.edu;"
"Ira Sharenow's Home page; Ira Sharenow (iss@cs.wisc.edu);Teaching Assistant, CS 132 Peterson; Computer Sciences Department;University of Wisconsin - Madison;Madison, WI 53706;Office: 3310 Computer Sciences;Telephone: (608)262-1721;Office Hours for CS 132, Sections 351 and 352:;Tuesdays 12:05 - 12:55 PM;Thursdays 4:00 - 4:50 PM;Section 351 meets TR at 1 PM.;Section 352 meets TR at 2:30 PM;Both Classes meet in room 1366 Computer Sciences;CS 132 Announcements;Handouts;Mother Jones profile of Ira Sharenow; Recreational Site; Please send me an email with your comments.;Last modified: Tuesday, September 24, 1996 by Ira Sharenow;"
"Jim Basney;Jim Basney;Graduate Student/Research Assistant;Computer Sciences Department;University of Wisconsin-Madison;1210 W. Dayton St.;Madison, WI 53706-1685;Email:;jbasney@cs.wisc.edu;Office: 3387 Computer Science and Statistics;Office Phone: (608) 262-3924;FAX: (608) 262-9777;My research interests lie in the area of Operating Systems and;Networks. I am currently working on;Condor, under direction;of Prof. Miron Livny.;I received my B.A. from;Oberlin College in;Computer Science and;English.;I have some web;pages at Oberlin.;My resume and code;from some previous projects are available online.;Last Modified: Mon Sep 16 10:51:22 1996 by Jim Basney;"
"Jerel L. Mackay's Home Page;Jerel L. Mackay; I am an Assistant Researcher in Computer Sciences specializing in; Databases and Operating Systems.; I work fulltime for the Computer Systems Lab at the; University of Wisconsin-Madison Computer Sciences Department.; My responsibilities include developing and supporting our SYBASE; and Ingres database installations, SUN's, backup software, and; training student hourlies.; I play the electric guitar (thrash metal being my specialty) and; also the violin (classical and baroque mainly).; I've seen the error of my evil ways, click here for before and after. Shocking huh? Here's one more in case you didn't believe your eyes the first time.;;When I'm not working I like to:; Record (mostly funny ""covers"" of stuff from ABBA to Metallica) but also some originals.) SOON you will be able to sample these hits from my new cd.; Watch my favorite TV show:;; Play raquetball, golf or shoot pool.; Stand around in a towel.;Yeah I know there's not much here. I'm working on it...;Finger Jerel;Last modified: Mon Apr 25 14:05:20 CDT 1994 by Jerel L. Mackay;jerel@cs.wisc.edu;"
"Smu's Home Page of Relief and Happiness;;; (Java, good; censorship bad);THIS IS BIG, REALLY;;e-mail me at jherro@cs.wisc.edu;;Some notes for my CS 132 classes.;There, you've made it to my home page. Now you can relax. Hee hee!;Lets see, what would be a cool thing to put in a home page? How about a;picture? Here, this is a picture me and my girlfriend of 4 and a half years. I'm afraid its a bit dated though. Its almost 4 years old itself.;;After many years of torture this is me now.;;After disembodyment, I became the floating head of death.;; -- the directory that has the animation; frames (a series of pictures in GIF or JPEG; format, by default named T1.gif, T2.gif,..); -- number of the starting frame (1..n); -- number of the end frame (1..n); -- milliseconds to pause between images; default - can be overriden by PAUSES); -- repeat the sequence?; -- explicit order for frames - see below;;;; Stuff about me Here is some vital information about me and how I aquired the nickname: SMU.;; I would like to take this time to apologize for the lameness of my page. Please bear with me. Here are some pretty;pictures of jack skellington and kermit the frog.>;;There, those are interesting. Here is something else neat. This is;a link to my friend Dan's homepage. He writes Haiku's and he said that;he was going to put some there. click;here to get to Dan's stuff. Dan was a roomate of mine in under-grad at Notre Dame. Here are some memories of that forgotten time with Dan and my roomates.;; The cult of the Wax Hippo;This is the most exploratory intervention of chaotic existence in reality.; Follow this link and enjoy all the benefits of a matriarchical society. JOIN TODAY!!;; An exclusive club. Hierarchy and Rules!!! What fun!;;;These are some of my old friends Homepages .;Here are some semi-cool links.; Notre Dame's home page; YAHOOOOOOOOOOOOO!!!!; work.;This link contains the Free Software Shack.;And here are a bazillion search engines in one:W3 Search Engines;mpeg movie archive;;HERE IS A REALLY COOL LINK:; A great muppet page. Sounds, images and links. Very cool.;;Rachel If you want to see select cool canoe trip pictures look here.;There is a bout 2.2 meg of them. Here they are. Have fun!;Canoe Pictures;"
"Jie-Bing Yu's Home Page; Jie-Bing Yu;Index:;General Information |;Education |;Advisor |;Research Interests |;Research Projects |; Publications |; Pointers |; Hobbies;General Information;Research Assistant;Department of Computer Sciences;University of Wisconsin - Madison;1210 West Dayton Street;Madison, WI 53706;Tel: (608) 262-6622;Fax: (608) 262-9777;jiebing.cs.wisc.edu;Education; Ph.D.; M.S.;(Computer Science) University of Wisconsin - Madison, 1993;Advisor; Prof. David DeWitt;Research Interests; Tertiary Storage Support for DBMS; Parallel Database Management Systems; Object-Oriented Database Management Systems; Geographic Information Systems;Research Projects; Paradise; SHORE;Publications;Building a Scaleable Geo-Spatial DBMS: Technology,;Implmentation, and Evaluation;(with J. Patel, N. Kabra, K. Tufte, B. Nag, J. Burger,;N. Hall, K. Ramasamy, R. Lueder, C. Ellman, J. Kupsch,;S. Guo, D. DeWitt, and J. Naughton),;Submitted for publication, October, 1996.;Query Pre-Execution and Batching in Paradise:;A Two-Pronged Approach to the Efficient Processing;of Queries on Tape-Resident Data Sets;(with D. J. DeWitt),;Submitted for publication, October, 1996.;Processing Satellite Images on Tertiary Storage:;A Study of the Impact of Tile Size on Performance;(with D. J. DeWitt), To appear in 5th NASA GOddard Conference;on Mass Storage Systems and Technologies, September, 1996.;Using Constraints to Query R*-Tree;(with J. Goldstein, R. Ramakrishnan and U. Shaft),;A shorter version will appear in CP96 Workshop on;Constraints and Databases, February, 1996.;Client-Server Paradise;(with D. DeWitt, N. Kabra, J. Luo and J. Patel),;Proceedings of the 1994 Very Large Data Bases Conference,;Santiago, Chile, September 1994.;Storage Reclamation and Reorganization in Client-Server;Persistent Object Store;(with V. Yong and J. Naughton),;Proceedings of the 1994 IEEE Data Engineering Conference,;Houston, TX, February 1994.;Pointers; EOSDIS; SIGMOD; UW-Madison DBMS Research Group;Hobbies; Tennis -- TENNIS SERVER; Volleyball -- VOLLEYBALLWEB; White Water Rafting -- Whitewater Page;;Can you find me in the picture? Click here for a full sized picture.; Last Updated: July 14, 1996 by Jie-Bing Yu (jiebing@cs.wisc.edu);"
"Jignesh's Home Page;Jignesh M. Patel jignesh@cs.wisc.edu.;;Welcome!;Research Assistant; Department of Computer Sciences; University of Wisconsin - Madison;1210 West Dayton Street; Madison, WI 53706-1685;Telephone: (608) 262-6625;Advisor: David DeWitt;Research Interests:; GIS systems, parallel database systems and object-relational databases.; Currently working on the Paradise project.;Publications Related to Paradise; Client-Server Paradise : Paper published in VLDB 1994.; Partition Based Spatial Merge Join : To be published in SIGMOD 1996.;Other Publications; Accurate Modeling of the Hybrid Hash Join Algorithm : Paper published in SIGMETRICS 1994.;Miscellaneous stuff:; Virtual Tourist; Inline Skating; IT-BHU home page; Madhuri dey dey, Kashmir ley ley; My bookmarks;"
George Varghese;This is 1996 people!!!;Download Netscape 3.0 or go see my old page by;; clicking here.... WARNING : THE PAGE IS PRETTY LAME!;
"Johannes Gehrke's homepage;Johannes Gehrke;Welcome! I am an international graduate student;at the Computer Sciences;Department; at the University of;Wisconsin-Madison. My area of interest is database;management systems. I am working in the area of data mining under;Professor Raghu;Ramakrishnan.;This page is under construction.;Contact Information;Publications;Interesting Links;Contact Information;Email:;johannes@cs.utexas.edu;Office;University of Wisconsin-Madison;Computer Sciences Department; 1210 West Dayton Street, room 3379; Madison, Wisconsin 53706-1685; (608) 263-2150;;Home;706-D Eagle Heights; Madison, WI 53705; (608) 233-0937;;Publications; I. Stoica,;H. Abdel-Wahab,;K. Jeffay,;S.K. Baruah,;J.E. Gehrke,;and;C.G. Plaxton.;A Proportional Share Resource Allocation Algorithm;For Real-Time, Time-Shared Systems. In;Proceedings of the 17th IEEE Real-Time Systems Symposium,;Washington, DC, December 1996 (to appear). Here is an;expanded version.;S.K. Baruah,;J.E. Gehrke,;and;C.G. Plaxton.;Fast;Scheduling of Periodic Tasks on Multiple Resources. In;Proceedings of the 9th IEEE International Parallel Processing;Symposium, April 1995. Expanded version available as Technical;Report TR-95-02, Department of Computer Sciences, The University;of Texas at Austin, February 1995;Johannes Gehrke;"
"CS132 Info;CS 132 Info for Section 358;TA Name: Jon Bodner;Sections: 358 (MW 6:10-7:25);Office Hours: Monday 12:30-1:30 and Thursday 1:30-2:30;Office Number: 1308, Computer Sciences and Statistics (down the hall from DoIT);Phone: 262-6602;E-Mail: jonb@cs.wisc.edu;Here are a few things to keep in mind:;If you need a copy of the lab guide for my sections, click here to get one, then choose Print from the File Menu and click OK.;If you have any questions, please stop by during my office hours or send me E-Mail.;Grades for my section are available by clicking here.;Jon Bodner/jonb@cs.wisc.edu/1326 Mound St. #1, Madison, WI 53715;Last Modified: September 15, 1996;"
"Jon's Home Page;Welcome to Jon's Home Page!;I'm a first year graduate student at the University of Wisconsin, Madison,;studying computer science. I am a TA for CS 132: Using Computers. I;am also maintaining a FAQ (Frequently;Asked Questions) List on the latest PowerBook models released by Apple;(the 5300's, the 190's, and the 2300's);Here are a few things to look at:;Students in my CS 132 Lab Sections should;click here;I've amassed a big list of good Web;sites, in a number of catagories.;Check out the Web pages for the UW-Madison CS department, UW-Madison itself, and my alma mater, RPI!;The sites I visit the most often are:;Apple's Home Page -- For all your;Mac needs;The Nando;Times -- For great news coverage;The Spot -- For mind-numbing,;soap-operaish drivel;ZiffNet -- For computer industry;news;CS564: Database Management Systems and CS 701: Construction of Compilers --;For keeping up with my classwork;Today's;Dilbert -- For a bit of a chuckle;Jon Bodner/jonb@cs.wisc.edu/1326 Mound;St. #1, Madison, WI 53715;Last Modified: September 15, 1996;"
"Jeff Shabel's Home Page;Cheers! Welcome to Jeff Shabel's Home Page at U of Wisconsin;Cheers Theme Song (.AU 517K);I am the TA for;CS/ECE 752.;Office Hours: Tues 10-11AM, Thurs 2:20-3:20PM or by appointment.;Office: CS 1351;Personal Information;Major:;Computer Science (Architecture Emphasis);Status:;Second-year Graduate Student. View my;Fall 1996 schedule.;Age:;23;Academic Background:;Received a BS in Computer Engineering from;UC San Diego in the;Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) Department.;Home Town:;Cupertino, CA. (by;San Jose);High School:;Monta Vista High School, Cupertino, CA.;Plans:;Graduate with an MS in Computer Science in May 1997.;Favorite Sports Teams:;Golden State Warriors (Basketball) -;San Jose Mercury News, and;Nando Net;San Jose Sharks (Hockey) -;San Jose Mercury News, and;Nando Net;San Francisco 49ers (Football)-;San Jose Mercury News, and;Nando Net;Oakland A's;Favorite WWW Links:;News:;San Jose Mercury News;Music:;*;Columbia House / BMG FAQ; Find out how to join Columbia House under their 10-for-1/2;deal! Also tips and info on how to join these Music Clubs.;Miscellaneous:;View / Print PostScript Documents with MS Windows!;Send Mail to: jshabel@cs.wisc.edu;"
"Jussi Myllymaki;Jussi Myllymaki; Research Assistant; Computer Sciences Department; University of Wisconsin; 1210 West Dayton Street; Madison, WI 53706-1685; telephone: (608) 262-6627; fax: (608) 262-9777; email: jussi@cs.wisc.edu;Research Summary;I am interested in the performance analysis of DBMS operations on;advanced tape and disk technology, including disk and tape arrays. I'm;currently studying how to buffer large datasets from tertiary storage;to disk and memory when such data are used for data exploration and;visualization (the DEVise;project). My advisor is Prof. Miron;Livny.;My recent work includes improving the performance of relational joins;of large volumes of disk and tape-resident data (see publication list;below), and applying a log-structured organization to tertiary storage;to solve problems associated with the diverse characteristics and;functional limitations of tertiary media. Our recent paper on data;visualization and exploration discusses data and metadata management;issues when large and complex data sets are involved.;Refereed Publications;Efficient Buffering for Concurrent Disk and;Tape I/O (with Miron Livny), Proceedings of Performance;'96 - The International Conference on Performance Theory,;Measurement and Evaluation of Computer and Communication Systems,;October 1996.;Integrated Visualization of Parallel Program;Performance Data (with Karen L. Karavanic, Miron Livny and Barton;P. Miller), Proceedings of the Third Workshop on Environments and;Tools for Parallel Scientific Computing, August 1996;Log-Structured Organization for Tertiary;Storage (with Daniel A. Ford), Proceedings of the;International Conference on Data Engineering, February 1996. Also;available as IBM Almaden Research Report 9941.;Visual Exploration of Large Data Sets (with;Miron Livny and Raghu Ramakrishnan), Proceedings of SPIE - The;International Society for Optical Engineering, January 1996.;Disk-Tape Joins: Synchronizing Disk and;Tape Access (with Miron Livny), Proceedings of the ACM;SIGMETRICS Conference, May 1995.;Submitted for Publication;DEVise: Integrated Querying and Visualization of Large Datasets,;M. Livny, R. Ramakrishnan, K. Beyer, G. Chen, D. Donjerkovic,;S. Lawande, J. Myllymaki, and K. Wenger, submitted to the 1997;ACM SIGMOD Conference.;Relational Joins for Data on Tertiary Storage, Jussi Myllymaki and;Miron Livny, submitted to the 1997 International Conference on Data;Engineering.;Other Publications;Disk-Tape Joins: Synchronizing Disk and Tape;Access (with Miron Livny), University of Wisconsin, CS Department,;Technical Report 1270, 1995.;Joins on Tapes: Project Report, Master's Degree;Project Report, University of Wisconsin, CS Department, 1993.;Applying the Client-Server Model in Computer Network;Architectures, Master's Thesis, Helsinki University of Technology,;Department of Industrial Management, 1991. In Finnish.;Other Documents;Implementation and Performance Analysis of R-Tree;Algorithms (with Jeff Schwarz and Yoav Weiss), class report, 1993.;Experiences with Implementing a Log-Structured File;System (with Trishul Chilimbi and Yoav Weiss), class report, 1992.;Overview of current tape technologies and products;Overview of RAID technology suppliers and products;Some frequently needed links (FNL);Unified Technical Report Search;Adaptec SCSI adapters;(home);;Digital PCs;and;Technical Journal;and; Whitepapers;(home);;IBM Technology and Research;and;CyberJournal;Quantum Digital Linear Tape;and;DLT FAQ;and;Whitepapers;(home);;Sun Solaris;and;SparcStations;and;Technical Reports;(home);;SCSI FAQ;and;Storage FAQ;and other;Usenet FAQs;Many other of my links are found here.;jussi@cs.wisc.edu;"
"Here is a HomePage for Jyothi;This page is under construction.;; HERE IS THE INFO FOR STUDENTS OF THE COURSE CS132 sec 306 307; Grades of cs132 sec 306;Others, sorry to dissappoint you;email : jyothi@cs.wisc.edu;"
"Karen L. Karavanic;Everything I need to know I learned in a NYC public school...;Karen L. Karavanic;Research Assistant, Paradyn Parallel Performance Tools Project; University of Wisconsin-Madison;Computer Sciences Department; 1210 West Dayton Street;Madison , WI 53706;; 6372 CS&S (608)262-6617; karavan@cs.wisc.edu;I am currently pursuing a Ph.D. in Computer Science. My research interests include...; Parallel Computing Environments; Automating the Performance Tuning Process; Operating Systems; Databases;Ask Me About...;UW-Madison Women in Computer Sciences (WICS);Frontiers in Science, a cool program for Dane County High School Students;TRIO Student Support Services, free tutoring and other support for UW-Madison undergraduates!;Don't Miss these Sites...;The web page that could save your life: the Safer Sex Page;For Chocolate Lovers Only;Stuyvesant High School Alumni Association;Stuyvesant High School Class of 1980;THOMAS: Legislative Information on the Internet;The U.S. Constitution;""The cure for anything is salt water -- sweat, tears, or the sea.""; -- Isak Dinesen; ""A ship in port is safe, but that is not what ships are for.; Sail out to sea and do new things.""; -- Admiral Grace Hopper, Computer Pioneer;"
"Stefanos Kaxiras' Home Page; Stefanos Kaxiras (kaxiras@cs.wisc.edu);Editor, IEEE 1596.2 Kiloprocessor Extensions to SCI;Research Assistant, University of Wisconsin; Research Interests and Summary; Recent Publications;Research Interests:; Shared-memory multiprocessing & Scalable Coherent Interface (SCI); Cache design; Aspects of Parallelism in Processor-in-Memory (or Memory-in-Processor) architectures (Galileo);Research Summary:;In 1994 I have introduced the GLOW Kiloprocessor Extensions to SCI (a.k.a. Hierarchical Extensions SCI) in collaboration;with Jim Goodman. I am now working to both examine in depth design options and develop the upcoming 1596.2 standard in;colaboration with Jim Goodman, David V. James and Stein Gjessing.; Recent Publications:;The GLOW Cache Coherence Protocol Extensions for Widely Shared Data,;Stefanos Kaxiras and James R. Goodman;To appear in Proceedings International Conference on Supercomputing, May 1996;Also as: Technical report TR-1305;Kiloprocessor Extensions to SCI,;Stefanos Kaxiras;To appear in Proceedings of the 10th International Parallel Processing Symposium, April 1996;Implementation and Performance of the GLOW Kiloprocessor Extensions to SCI on the Wisconsin Wind Tunnel,;Stefanos Kaxiras and James R. Goodman;2nd International Workshop on SCI-based High-Performance Low-Cost Computing, March 1995;Hierarchical Extensions to Cache Coherence in SCI,;Stefanos Kaxiras and James R. Goodman;1st International Workshop on SCI-based High-Performance Low-Cost Computing, August 1994;Hierarchical Extensions to SCI,;James R. Goodman and Stefanos Kaxiras;University of Wisconsin, Computer Sciences Dept., TR-1235, July 1994;PSM: Software Tool for Simulating, Prototyping, and Monitoring of Multiprocessor Systems,;A. Stafylopatis, I. Papakonstantinou, S. Kaxiras;Information and Software Technology 34, May 1992, pp. 313-325;The automated synthesis of parallel dedicated architectures using prolog specifications,;P. Tsanakas, G. Papakonstantinou K. Pekmestzi and S. Kaxiras;P.D.COM 91, Greece, 1991;A Hardware Synthesis Methodology Using Prolog,;P. Tsanakas, G. Papakonstantinou, S. Kaxiras;Microprocessing and Microprogramming 32 (1991) 307-314, North-Holland;"
"Kristin's Home Page;Kristin Tufte; Research Assistant; Computer Sciences Department; University of Wisconsin -- Madison; 1210 West Dayton Street; Madison, WI 53706; (608) 262-6622;tufte@cs.wisc.edu;Advisor: David J. DeWitt; Miscellany:;HDF Information Server;UW-Madison DBMS Research Group;ACM SIGMOD Information Server Home Page;EOS Project Science Office;Last modified: Sat Oct 14 20:13:27 1995 by Kristin Tufte;Kristin Tufte / tufte@cs.wisc.edu;"
Krung's homepage;Updated on 5 November 1996.;Krung's homepage underconstruction;I try to keep this page short and informative.;Have a good serf!!!;1997 : The year to come;The following are my own web related to topic I am doing research on.; Mathematical Programmings; : Ph D. project pursuing.; Course works; : Old course works in Computer Science department.; Computer companies; : Favorite hobby.; Personal information; : My personal opinion and life.;UW Madison-Wisconsin linked;The following Web pages are the some important links.;University of Madison-Wisconsin; as a whole.; Computer Sciences; department as a unique entity.; Electronic; library system from UW.;Krung Sinapiromsaran : Email;krung@cs.wisc.edu;
"CS 540 - Intro to AI (Kunen's Section); CS 540 - Introduction to Artificial Intelligence; Notice;The information here is for Spring, 1997.;Further details about the course;will appear here later.; Instructor:;Ken Kunen;Office: 6385 CS & Stats Building;Telephone: 263-2874;Email: kunen@cs.wisc.edu;Office Hours: ????, or by appointment, or by email.; Grades;There will be four programming assignments, counting 10%;each, and three exams, counting 20% each; the third;exam will be at the scheduled time and place for the final.;Programs may be turned in any time (until midnight) on the;day due.;Late assignments will loose 5% for each day late.; Topics Covered;The following order of topics isn't entirely logical, but;is designed so that the topic for each programming assignment;is discussed before the program is due.; Introduction to Lisp (Program 1); Searching and Game Playing (Program 2); Introduction to Prolog; Natural Language Understanding (Program 3); Learning and Neural Networks (Program 4); Logical Deduction; Planning; Reasoning with Uncertain Knowledge; Lisp Information;Since Lisp is used in a lot (not all!) of AI programming, the course;will begin with a discussion of COMMON Lisp. It would probably be useful;to have some Lisp reference available to supplement the lectures;and the on-line help available within lisp itself. There are many;paperbacks available, most of which are probably ok.;; I like Common LISPcraft by Wilensky.; Another possibility:; The ANSI Common Lisp Book by Graham.;; Code used in the book is on line.; The Ultimate Lisp Reference: Steele's Common; Lisp: The Language (2nd Edition) , 1029 pages. Also;; available on line.;; Click here; for more information on using Common Lisp on the Suns; Additional Information; Textbook:;Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach; by Russell and Norvig; Class time: 8:30 - 10:45 TR (Lec. 1) and 11:00 - 12:15 TR (Lec. 2); in 1325 CS.; Recitation sessions: 2:30 - 3:45 T; in 2305 Engr (Lec. 1) and 4:00 - 5:15 T in 121 Psych (Lec. 2).; In these, no essentiallly new material will be presented.; I'll answer questions, give hints for; programming assignments, and review for exams.; They will usually last only 50 minutes. Since I am teaching; both sections, you may attend a recitation section which; is different from your lecture section.; The course directory is /p/course/cs540-kunen/public; An alpha-beta problem from a previous exam is on the course; directory (alpha_beta.ps).; click here to see it on line.; A best-first-search problem from a previous exam is on the course; directory (astar.ps).; click here to see it on line.; Exams from Fall, 1995 (postscript); Exam 1; Exam 2; Exam 3 (Final); Some still older exams are in the course directory.; Last Changed: November 4, 1996 by kunen@cs.wisc.edu;"
"Ken Kunen's Home Page; Kenneth Kunen;Professor;Math and Computer Sciences;University of Wisconsin;1210 W. Dayton St.;Madison, WI 53706-1685;E-mail: kunen@cs.wisc.edu;Telephone: (608) 263-2874;Ph.D., Stanford University, 1968;Interests: automated deduction, logic programing,;set theory, topology; Research Summary;Most of my research work involves logic and its applications.;Typical applications are automated deduction and logic programming.;In automated deduction, we use tools like resolution;to prove new mathematical theorems.;In logic programming, we study the semantics of languages like;Prolog. Specific topics I am considering are the Prolog;use of negation-as-failure, and the semantic incompatibilities between;least-fixed-point computations and the Prolog-style backtracking computation.;In mathematical logic, I work on axiomatic set theory.;Besides being of interest in its own right, this;subject relates to various abstract areas of mathematics,;such as set-theoretic topology and measure theory,;where many basic questions turn out to be independent of the usual;axioms of set theory.; Selected Recent Publications;The following are all postscript files.; Kunen, K.,;; The Shortest Single Axioms for Groups of Exponent 4,; Computers and Mathematics and Applications,; 29 (1995) 1-12.; Hart, J. &amp Kunen, K.,;; Single Axioms for Odd Exponent Groups,; J. Automated Reasoning 14 (1995) 383-412.; Kunen, K.,;; A Ramsey Theorem in Boyer-Moore Logic,; to appear, J. Automated Reasoning.; Kunen, K. &amp van Mill, J.,;; Measures on Corson Compact Spaces;Fundamenta Mathematica 147 (1995) 61-72.; Hart, J. &amp Kunen, K.,;; Locally Constant Functions ,; Fundamenta Mathematica 150 (1996) 67-96.; Kunen, K.,;; The Semantics of Answer Literals ,; Technical Report TR-95-1282, University of Wisconsin, 1995,; to appear, J. Automated Reasoning.; Kunen, K.,;; Non-Constructive Computational Mathematics,; Technical Report TR-95-1287, University of Wisconsin, 1995,; to appear, J. Automated Reasoning.; Kunen, K.,;; Moufang Quasigroups,; J. Algebra 83 (1996) 231-234.; Kunen, K.,;; Quasigroups, Loops, and Associative Laws , preprint; to appear, J. Algebra .; Kunen, K.,;; The Structure of Conjugacy Closed Loops , preprint; Kunen, K.,;; A Completeness Result for Linked Resolution ,; to appear, MIT Press.;; Hart, J. &amp Kunen, K.,;; Weak Measure Extension Axioms ,; ROUGH DRAFT!!;Book Review:;; Hart, J. &amp Kunen, K.,;; Review of ""Notes on Set Theory"" by Moschovakis,; American Mathematical Monthly 103 (1996) 87-91.; Courses Taught;For fall, 1996:; Math 131: Geometrical Inference and Reasoning.; Math 770: Foundations of Mathematics.;For spring, 1997:;; Comp Sci 540: Artificial Intelligence.; Last Changed: October 4, 1996 by kunen@cs.wisc.edu;"
"James Larus' Home Page; James Larus (larus@cs.wisc.edu);Associate Professor of Computer Science;Department of Computer Sciences;University of Wisconsin - Madison;1210 West Dayton Street;Madison, WI 53706 USA;larus@cs.wisc.edu;Phone: 608-262-9519;Secretary: 265-4892 (Julie Fingerson or Thea Sklenar);Departmental Office: 262-1204;Fax: 608-262-9777; Education; Research Interests; Research Projects; Upcomming Courses; Software; Recent Papers; Ph.D. Graduates; Summary; Education:; Ph.D. University of California, Berkeley, 1989.; M.S. University of California, Berkeley, 1982.; A.B. Harvard College, 1980.; Research Interests:;Programming languages;and compilers, in particular languages and compilers for parallel machines.; Design and programming of shared-memory parallel computers.; Compiling symbolic languages.; Program profiling and tracing.; Program executable editing.;Research Projects:; Wisconsin Wind Tunnel(WWT); C** Large-Grain Data Parallel Programming Language; Executable Editing Library (EEL); Courses:;CS367 Data Structures;CS838 Java!; Software:; SPIM; QPT; EEL; WARTS;Recent Papers;Efficient Path Profiling,;Thomas Ball and James Larus,;To appear: MICRO-29, December 1996.;Parallel Programming in C**: A Large-Grain Data-Parallel Programming;Language,; James Larus, Brad Richards, Guhan Viswanathan,;in Gregory V. Wilson, ed.,;Parallel Programming Using C++,; MIT Press, 1996;Teapot: Language Support for Writing Memory Coherence Protocols,;Satish Chandra, Brad Richards, and James Larus,;ACM SIGPLAN '96 Programming Language Design and Implementation;(PLDI '96), May 1996.;Instruction Scheduling and Executable Editing,;Eric Schnarr and;James R. Larus,;To Appear: Workshop on Compiler Support for System Software (WCSSS),;February 1996.;Efficient Support for Irregular Applications on Distributed-Memory Machines,;Shubhendu Mukherjee, Shamik Sharma, Mark Hill, James Larus, Anne;Rogers, and Joel Saltz,;Fifth ACM SIGPLAN Symposium on Principles and Practice;of Parallel Programming (PPoPP), July 1995.;EEL: Machine-Independent Executable Editing,;James Larus and Eric Schnarr,;ACM SIGPLAN '95 Conferences on Programming Languages;Design and Implementation (PLDI), June 1995.;Tempest: A Substrate for Portable Parallel Programs,;Mark Hill, James Larus, and David Wood,;COMPCON Spring 95, March 1995.;Static Branch Frequency and Program Profile Analysis,;Youfeng Wu and James Larus,;27th Annual IEEE/ACM International Symposium on Microarchitecture;(MICRO 27), November 1994.;Application-Specific Protocols for User-Level Shared Memory,;Babak Falsafi, Alvin Lebeck, Steven Reinhardt, Ioannis Schoinas, Mark;Hill, James Larus, Anne Rogers, and David Wood,;Supercomputing '94, November 1994.;Where is Time Spent in Message-Passing and Shared-Memory Programs?,;Satish Chandra, James Larus, and Anne Rogers,;Sixth International Conference on Architectural Support for;Programming Languages and Operating Systems (ASPLOS-VI), October 1994.;LCM: System Support for Language Implementation,;James Larus, Brad Richards, and Guhan Viswanathan,;Sixth International Conference on Architectural Support for;Programming Languages and Operating Systems (ASPLOS-VI), October 1994.;Fine-grain Access Control for Distributed Shared Memory,;Ioannis Schoinas, Babak Falsafi, Alvin Lebeck, Steven Reinhardt, James;Larus, and David Wood,;Sixth International Conference on Architectural Support for;Programming Languages and Operating Systems (ASPLOS-VI), October 1994.;Cachier: A Tool for Automatically Inserting CICO Annotations,;Trishul Chilimbi and James Larus,;1994 International Conference on Parallel Programming (ICPP), August 1994.;The Wisconsin Wind Tunnel Project: An Annotated Bibliography,;Mark D. Hill, James R. Larus, David A. Wood,;Unpublished manuscript, revised frequently.;Cooperative Shared Memory: Software and Hardware for Scalable Multiprocessors,;Mark D. Hill, James R. Larus, Steven K. Reinhardt, David A. Wood,;ACM Transactions on Computer Systems (TOCS), November 1993.;Wisconsin Architectural Research Tool Set (WARTS),;Mark D. Hill, James R. Larus, Alvin R. Lebeck, Madhusudhan Talluri,;David A. Wood,;Computer Architecture News (CAN), August 1993.;Ph.D. Graduates;Brad Richards,;Ph.D. August 1996,;Memory Systems for Parallel Programming,;First employment: Vassar College.;Guhan Viswanathan,;Ph.D. September 1996,;New Techniques for Compiling Data Parallel Languages;First employment: Oracle.;Lorenz Huelsbergen,;Ph.D. August 1993,;Dynamic Language Parallelization,;First employment: AT&T Bell Labs (lorenz@research.att.com).;Thomas Ball,;Ph.D. August 1993,;The Use of Control-Flow and Control Dependence in Software Tools,;First employment: AT&T Bell Labs (tball@research.att.com).;Research Summary;My research focuses on problems in programming computers. As part of the;Wisconsin Wind Tunnel (WWT ) Project, I have;helped develop a hybrid (software-hardware), shared-memory computer;architecture that facilitates programming and compiling for parallel;machines. Currently, my students and I are developing languages, compilers,;and tools to demonstrate and exploit the power of user-level coherence;policies.;I'm also interested performance evaluation tools that help programmers;understand and improve their programs' performance. Recently, Tom Ball and;I developed an efficient path profiling algorithm, which provides a more;detailed understanding of control-flow within routines and which has;identified new possibilities for better compilers.;Last modified: Fri Nov 1 21:17:09 1996 by James Larus;larus@cs.wisc.edu;"
"Nick's Page;Nick's Page;Office: CS 1349;Phone: 262-5340;Email: leavy@cs.wisc.edu;Office hours: Tuesday 1:00 - 2:00, Wednessday 2:30 - 3:30;"
"Steven Huss-Lederman's Home Page; Steven Huss-Lederman's Home Page; My research interests include:; My research at the Univ. of Wisconsin at Madison relates to the;Wisconsin Wind Tunnel project.; My other big research area is parallel linear algebra which is;covered by the PRISM;project.; I am also heavily involed in the MPI;standard.;I and several others recently published a book about the original MPI;standard. You can get information on ordering the book from MIT Press (ISBN;95-80471). You can also look at MPI:;The Complete Reference on the web.;As the MPI-2 editor, I can get you the current draft of the MPI Forum.;Please keep in mind that the work of the MPI Forum is ongoing and;its documents are intended for use by those interested in the ongoing;work of the MPI Forum. For committee members, the;compressed postscript, complete sources as a compressed;tar file, and the;individual source files are available.; Information you would get if you did a finger on me:; Steven Huss-Lederman; Computer Science Dept.; Univ. of Wisconsin-Madison; 1210 W. Dayton St.; Madison, WI 53706; Phone: (608)262-0664; (608)265-4892 (for message if desperate); FAX: (608)262-9777; e-mail: lederman@cs.wisc.edu; WEB: http://www.cs.wisc.edu/~lederman/lederman.html; Office: 6367 Computer Science and Statistics Building;"
"Home Page of Lawrence H. Landweber;Lawrence H. Landweber; Professor; Computer Sciences Department; University of Wisconsin; 1210 W. Dayton St.; Madison, WI 53706-1685; Telephone: (608) 262-1204; Fax: (608) 265-2635; Email: lhl@cs.wisc.edu;Ph.D., Purdue University, 1967;Interests:;Computer networks and protocols, high speed networks, electronic;mail; Research Summary;My research program focuses on high speed networks. We are participating;in the Gigabit project, a DARPA-NSF national project which involves;the design and implementation of network testbeds operating at;gigabit per second data rates. At Wisconsin we are working on;issues of protocol design, congestion and admission control, visualization;of atmospheric phenomena and virtual conferencing.; Sample Recent Publications;Design and implementation of a fast virtual circuit establishment;method for ATM networks (with R. Olsen), Proceedings of the;IEEE INFOCOM Conference, San Francisco, April, 1993.;;Dynamic time windows: Packet admission control with feedback (with;T. Faber and A. Mukherjee), Proceedings of the ACM SIGCOMM;Conference, Baltimore, August, 1992.;;Dynamic time windows and generalized virtual clock: Combined closed-loop;/ open loop congestion control (with A. Mukherjee and T. Faber),;Proceedings of the IEEE INFOCOM Conference, pp. 322-332,;Florence, May, 1992.; Networking Courses;Connectivity Table;"
"Shannon Lloyd's Home Page; Shannon Lloyd; Work Address;; University of Wisconsin -- Madison; Computer Science Department; 1210 West Dayton Street; Madison, WI 53706; 608-263-1938; lloyd@cs.wisc.edu; TA Responsibilities;; CS 132 Using Computers -- Lectures 3 & 4; Lab sections (1366 Comp S&St);; 354 5:20 - 6:35 pm TH; 356 6:40 - 7:55 pm TH;; Office hours (1351 Comp S&St);; Wednesday 12:00 - 1:00; Thursday 11:00 - 12:00; or by appointment;; Fall 1996 courses;; CS 701 Construction of Compilers (9:30 - 10:45 TH); CS 771 (545) Computational Linguistics (1:20 - 3:15 MWF); Various other links;; Women in Computer Science; University of Utah Department of; Chemistry; University of Utah Department of; Computer Science; Personal;; Engineering Career Services;; Computation and Language Archive;; Computational Linguistics;; Natural Language Processing;; UW Artificial Intelligence;; Cognitive and Linguistic Science; xsoft lexdemo;"
"Manuvir's Home Page;Manuvir Das;Now that you know what my name is and;what I look like, hello. Feel;free to look around, and if you need more information about something;send me some email.;If, like me, you have a passion for Golf, here's an;action photo.;Later,;- Manuvir;What should you know about me?;What should you know about in general?;Let's start with my advisor.... (better say this;to keep the money coming!).;With that out of the way, let's turn to the;original America's Team.;And of course, the league they play in.;For days other than Sunday, a round or two of Golf.;And finally: when you say Wis-consin, you've said it all!;manuvir@cs.wisc.edu;"
"CS/ECE 752 Fall 1996-1997;CS/ECE 752: Advanced Computer Architecture I;Fall 1996-1997 Offering;Instructor: Mark D. Hill;and TA: Jeff Shabel;URL: http://www.cs.wisc.edu/~markhill/cs752/;Computer architecture is the science and art of selecting and;interconnecting hardware components to create a computer that meets;functional, performance and cost goals. This course qualitatively and;quantitatively examines computer design tradeoffs. We will learn, for;example, how uniprocessors execute many instructions concurrently;and why state-of-the-art memory systems are nearly as complex as processors.;Examining tradeoffs requires that you already know how to design a;correct computer, as is taught is the important prerequisite CS/ECE;552. CS 537 is also a prerequisite, but it is less important, and may;be taken concurrently or adequately covered with external reading.; What's New; Instructor; Teaching Assistant; Text; Reader; Lecture; Project; Examinations; Homeworks; Incompletes and Academic Misconduct; Grading; Approximate Outline; Miscellanea;What's New; Homework 3 Assignment; Vectors (Appendix B); Instruction Level Parallelism (Chapter 4);Instructor: Mark D. Hill;Office: 6373 Comp Sci and Stat;Email: markhill@cs.wisc.edu;Office hours: Monday 2:00-3:00, Wednesday 11:00-12:00; or by appointment;Teaching Assistant: Jeff Shabel;Office: 1351 Comp Sci and Stat;Phone: 263-1938;Email: jshabel@cs.wisc.edu;Office hours: Tuesday 10:00-11:00, Thursday 2:20-3:20,; or by appointment;Text; John L. Hennessy and David A. Patterson,; Computer Architecture: A Quantitative Approach; Morgan Kaufmann Publishers, Second Edition, 1996.; (The 1st Edition will NOT do, as there are many improvements.);Reader;Students will also be taught to read the literature using about two;dozen papers that will be made available as four readers through;DoIT.; Reader 1; Table of Contents (full papers available from DoIT); Reader 2; Table of Contents (full papers available from DoIT); Reader 3; Table of Contents (full papers available from DoIT); Reader 4; Table of Contents (full papers NOT yet available from DoIT);Lecture;Time: 11:00 - 12:15 Tuesdays and Thursdays;Place: 1263 Comp Sci and Stat;Lecture Notes (access for Univ. of Wisconsin-Madison only):; Introduction, Performance, and Cost (Chapter 1); Instruction Sets (Chapter 2); Caches (Chapter 5 Part A); Main Memory (Chapter 5 Part B); Advanced Caches (Chapter 5 Part C); Pipelining (Chapter 3); Instruction Level Parallelism (Chapter 4); Vectors (Appendix B); Rest TBD;Project;The default project is to do some original research in a group of three;students. For example, you could examine a modest extension to a paper;studied in class or simply re-validate the data in some paper by;writing your own simulator. Alternatively, you may work in a group of;two to write a paper that surveys an area within computer;architecture. Projects will include an oral presentation and a paper.; Assignment;Examinations;There will be two midterm exams, but no final exam. The midterms are;listed in in the Approximate Outline. Please advise me of any;conflicts with these likely exam times before the end of the second;week of classes.;Homework;There will be several assignments. Many assignments will require the;review of material that is touched upon, but not covered in depth in;class. Assignments will not be weighted equally. The approximate;weights of each assignment will be specified when the assignment is;handed out. Assignments will be due in class on the due date. NO LATE;ASSIGNMENTS WILL BE ACCEPTED, except under extreme non-academic;circumstances discussed with the instructor at least one week before;the assignment is due.; Homework 0, Do NOT TURN IN, but you may optionally do it to refresh your knowledge (== Homework 1 from Fall 1994): assignment; Homework 1:; assignment; and; solution; Homework 2:; assignment; and; solution; Homework 3:; assignment;Incompletes and Academic Misconduct;University policy on incompletes and academic misconduct;will be followed strictly.;Grading; 35% Project; 25% Midterm 1; 25% Midterm 2; 15% Homework;;Approximate Outline;Week of;Topic;Topic;Reading;Sep 3IntroductionPerformance/CostChapter 1;Sep 10Instruction setsInstruction setsChapter 2;Sep 17Instruction setsMemory systemscont., Chapter 5;Sep 24Memory systemsMemory systemscont.;Oct 1Memory systemsMemory systemscont.;Oct 8Memory systemsReviewcont.;Oct 15Midterm 1ILPChapter 3;Oct 22ILPILPChapter 3 and 4;Oct 29ILPILPcont.;Nov 5ILPI/Ocont., Chapter 6;Nov 12I/OInterconnectsChapter 7;Nov 19InterconnectsReviewcont.;Nov 26Midterm 2Thanksgiving (no class)--;Dec 3MultiprocessorsBlue skyChapter 8;Dec 10Project talksProject talks--;Miscellanea;Example Midterm; CS/ECE 752 offerings with content and organization similar to; the present course:;; Prof. Jim Smith's offering last semester; My last offering in Fall 1994-1995; Wisconsin CS's Computer Architecture Group; Computer Architecture Colloquium Tuesdays 4-5 PM; World-Wide Computer Architecture Information; Oral;Presentation Advice, including David Patterson's;How to Give a Bad Talk; Wisconsin Architectural Research Tool Set (WARTS); Online;Raw Data for Cache Performance of the SPEC92 Benchmark Suite; Many popular benchmark suites can be found under cs.wisc.edu's AFS namespace at /p/hill/benchmarks. Due to license retrictions, access is limited to cs.wisc.edu.;Last updated by;Mark D. Hill;at;Tue Sep 3 14:35:32 CDT 1996;"
CS/ECE 752 Fall 1994-1995;CS/ECE 752: Advanced Computer Architecture I;Fall 1994-1995 Offering;; Course Information; Instructor:; Mark D. Hill;Office: 6373 Comp Sci & Stat;Email: markhill@cs.wisc.edu;Office hours: Tuesday 10:30 - 11:30; Friday 1:15 - 2:15 or by appointment; TA: Mo Shen;Office: 1351 Comp Sci & Stat;Phone: 263-1938;Email: mshen@cs.wisc.edu;Office hours: Monday 9:30 - 10:30; Thursday 4:00 - 5:00 or by appointment; Table of Contents; What's New; Reader; Lecture Notes; Homeworks; Project; Miscellanea;What's New;; Giving Talks;Reader;; Reader 1 Table of Contents (get full papers from DoIT);; Reader 2 Table of Contents (get full papers from DoIT);; Reader 3 Table of Contents (get full papers from DoIT);; Reader 4 Table of Contents (get full papers from DoIT); Lecture Notes;; Introduction (Chapter 1);; Performance & Cost (Chapter 2);; Instruction Sets (Chapter 3);; Caches (Chapter 6 Part A);; Memory (Chapter 6 Part B);; [Talluri & Hill 1994];; Basic Pipelining (Chapter 4 Part A);; Basic Pipelining (Chapter 4 Part B);; Instruction Level Parallelism; (Chapter 5 Part A);; Instruction Level Parallelism; (Chapter 5 Part B);; Input/Output (Chapter 7);; Interconnects (Chapter 8); No notes for Parallel Processing (Chapter 9).;Homeworks; Homework 1:; assignment; &; solution; Homework 2:; assignment; &; solution; Homework 3:; assignment; &; solution; Homework 4:; assignment; &; solution; Homework 5:; assignment; &; solution;Project;; Assignment; Proposals due November 7 in class; Talks December 5-14 in class; Report due December 19 at noon;Miscellanea;; Giving Talks;; Spring 1993 final;; Spring 1993 project assignment;; Spring 1993 midterm; (using first edition of Hennessy & Patterson);; Architecture Qualifying Exams (a source of hard questions);; Computer Architecture Seminar;; Wisconsin CS's Computer Architecture Group;; World-Wide Computer Architecture Information;
"Mark D. Hill's Home Page;Mark D. Hill (markhill@cs.wisc.edu);Associate Professor of Computer Sciences; and;Electrical and Computer Engineering;at the University of Wisconsin;Table of Contents; Addresses and Office Hours; Current Teaching and Catalog Information; Education; Research Interests and;Summary; Wisconsin Wind Tunnel Project; A Sampler of Recent Papers; Ph.D. Graduates;Links to Useful Information; World-Wide Computer Architecture Information; Wisconsin CS's Computer Architecture Group; Wisconsin Architectural Research Tool Set (WARTS); Stuff I like to use; Oral;Presentation Advice, including David Patterson's;How to Give a Bad Talk; Online;Raw Data for;Cache Performance of the SPEC92 Benchmark Suite; Proof that I am into hardware; A Wisconsin sound :-);Addresses:;Department of Computer Sciences;University of Wisconsin - Madison;1210 West Dayton Street;Madison, WI 53706 USA;markhill@cs.wisc.edu;Phone: 608-262-2196;Secretary: 608-265-4892 (Julie Fingerson or Thea Sklenar);Departmental Office: 608-262-1204;Fax: 608-262-9777;Office Hours (Fall 1996-1997):;Monday 2:00-3:00, Wednesday 11:00-12:00, or by appointment markhill@cs.wisc.edu;Current Teaching;Fall 1996-1997 -;CS/ECE 752;Advanced Computer Architecture I;Fall 1996-1997 -;CS 838;Topics in Computing - Java: The Language and the Implementation I;Catalog Information on Courses I Teach;CS/ECE 354 -;Machine Organization and Programming;CS/ECE 552 -;Introduction to Computer Architecture;CS/ECE 752 -;Advanced Computer Architecture I;CS/ECE 757 -;Advanced Computer Architecture II;Education:; Ph.D. (Computer Science);University of California - Berkeley, 1987; M.S. (Computer Science);University of California - Berkeley, 1983; B.S.E. (Computer Engineering);University of Michigan, 1981;Research Interests:; Computer architecture; Parallel computing; Memory systems; Performance evaluation;Research Summary;My research targets the memory systems of shared-memory multiprocessors;and high-performance uniprocessors. Memory system design is important,;because it largely determines a computer's sustained performance. My;work emphasizes quantitative analysis (often requiring new evaluation;techniques) of system-level (not just hardware) performance.;Much of my recent work is part of the Wisconsin Wind;Tunnel Projectwith Profs. Larus and Wood and many;students. The project expects most future massively-parallel computers;will be built from workstation-like nodes and programmed in high-level;parallel languages--like HPF--that support a shared address space in;which processes uniformly reference data. Our research seeks to;develop a consensus about the middle-level interface--below languages;and compilers and above system software and hardware. We have recently;proposed the Tempest interface that enables programmers,;compilers, and program libraries to implement and use message passing,;transparent shared memory, and hybrid combinations of the two. We are;developing Tempest implementations on a Thinking Machines CM-5, a;cluster of workstations (COW), and hypothetical hardware platforms.;The Wisconsin Wind Tunnel project is so named because we use our tools;to cull the design space of parallel supercomputers in a manner similar;to how aeronautical engineers use conventional wind tunnels to design;airplanes.;Other recent work with Madhu Talluri;targets improving translation lookaside buffer (TLB);and page table performance by clustering aligned groups of base pages.;Options require changes to hardware only (complete-subblocked TLBs),;operating system only (clustered page tables), or both (superpages;and partial-subblocked TLBs).;See our;ASPLOS;and;SOSP;papers.;A Sampler of Recent Papers;The Wisconsin Wind Tunnel Project: An Annotated Bibliography,;Mark D. Hill, James R. Larus, David A. Wood,;unpublished manuscript, revised frequently.;1996;Parallel Computer Research in the Wisconsin Wind Tunnel Project,;Mark D. Hill, James R. Larus, David A. Wood,;NSF Conference on Experimental Research in Computer Systems, June 1996.;Bidirectional Technology Transfer: Sabbaticals in Industry,;Mark D. Hill,;NSF Conference on Experimental Research in Computer Systems, June 1996.;Coherent Network Interfaces for Fine-Grain Communication,;Shubhendu S. Mukherjee,;Babak Falsafi,;Mark D. Hill, and;David A. Wood.;International Symposium on Computer Architecture (ISCA), 1996;;Optimistic Simulation of Parallel Architectures Using Program Executables,;Sashikanth Chandrasekaran and Mark D. Hill.;Workshop on Parallel and Distributed Simulation (PADS), May 1996.;1995;A New Page Table for 64-bit Address Spaces,;Madhusudhan Talluri, Mark D. Hill, Yousef A. Khalidi,;Symposium on Operating Systems Principals (SOSP),;December 1995.;Presidential Young Investigator Award Final Report,;Mark D. Hill,;July 1995.;Efficient Support for Irregular Applications on Distributed-Memory Machines,;Shubhendu S. Mukherjee, Shamik D. Sharma, Mark D. Hill, James R. Larus,;Anne Rogers, and Joel Saltz,;PPoPP, July 1995.;Cost-Effective Parallel Computing,;David A. Wood and Mark D. Hill,;(IEEE Computer, February 1995).;Solving Microstructure Electrostatics on a Proposed Parallel Computer,;Frank Traenkle, Mark D. Hill, Sangtae Kim,;Computers and Chemical Engineering, 1995.;1994;Application-Specific Protocols for User-Level Shared Memory,;Babak Falsafi, Alvin R. Lebeck, Steven K. Reinhardt, Ioannis Schoinas,;Mark D. Hill James R. Larus, Anne Rogers, David A. Wood,;Supercomputing '94, Nov. 1994.;Surpassing the TLB Performance of Superpages with Less Operating System Support,;Madhusudhan Talluri and Mark D. Hill,;International Conference on Architectural Support for;Programming Languages and Operating Systems (ASPLOS),;October 1994.;An Evaluation of Directory Protocols for Medium-Scale Shared-Memory;Multiprocessors,;Shubhendu S. Mukherjee and Mark D. Hill,;International Conference on Supercomputing (ICS), July 1994.;A Comparison of Trace-Sampling Techniques for Multi-Megabyte Caches,;R. E. Kessler, Mark D. Hill, David A. Wood,;IEEE Transactions on Computers, June 1994.;1993;Cooperative Shared Memory: Software and Hardware for Scalable Multiprocessors,;Mark D. Hill, James R. Larus, Steven K. Reinhardt, David A. Wood,;ACM Transactions on Computer Systems (TOCS), November 1993.;Wisconsin Architectural Research Tool Set (WARTS),;Mark D. Hill, James R. Larus, Alvin R. Lebeck, Madhusudhan Talluri,;David A. Wood,;Computer Architecture News (CAN), August 1993.;Cache Performance of the SPEC92 Benchmark Suite,;Jeffrey D. Gee, Mark D. Hill, Dionisios N. Pnevmatikatos, Alan Jay Smith,;IEEE Micro, August 1993.;A Unified Formalization of Four Shared-Memory Models,;Sarita V. Adve and Mark D. Hill,;IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems (TPDS), June 1993.;Performance Implications of Tolerating Cache Faults,;Andreas Farid Pour and Mark D. Hill,;IEEE Transactions on Computers (TOC), March 1993.;Mechanisms for Cooperative Shared Memory,;David A. Wood, Satish Chandra, Babak Falsafi, Mark D. Hill, James R. Larus,;Alvin R. Lebeck, James C. Lewis, Shubhendu S. Mukherjee, Subbarao Palacharla,;Steven K. Reinhardt,;International Symposium on Computer Architecture (ISCA), May 1993.;The Wisconsin Wind Tunnel: Virtual Prototyping of Parallel Computers,;Steven K. Reinhardt, Mark D. Hill, James R. Larus, Alvin R. Lebeck,;James C. Lewis, David A. Wood,;ACM SIGMETRICS, May 1993.;1992;Page Placement Algorithms for Large Real-Index Caches,;R. E. Kessler, Mark D. Hill,;ACM Transactions on Computer Systems, November 1992.;Programming for Different Memory Consistency Models,;Kourosh Gharachorloo, Sarita V. Adve, Anoop Gupta,;John L. Hennessy, Mark D. Hill,;Journal of Parallel and Distributed Computing, August 1992.;Tradeoffs in Supporting Two Page Sizes,;Madhusudhan Talluri, Shing Kong, Mark D. Hill, David A. Patterson,;International Symposium on Computer Architecture (ISCA), May 1992.;1991;Detecting Data Races on Weak Memory Systems,;Sarita V. Adve, Mark D. Hill, Barton P. Miller, Robert H. B. Netzer,;International Symposium on Computer Architecture (ISCA), June 1991.;Comparison of Hardware and Software Cache Coherence Schemes,;Sarita V. Adve, Vikram S. Adve, Mark D. Hill, Mary K. Vernon,;International Symposium on Computer Architecture (ISCA), June 1991.;A Model for Estimating Trace-Sample Miss Ratios,;David A. Wood, Mark D. Hill, R. E. Kessler;ACM SIGMETRICS, May 1991.;Implementing Stack Simulation for Highly-Associative Memories (extended abstract);Yul H. Kim, Mark D. Hill, David A. Wood,;ACM SIGMETRICS, May 1991.;1990;Implementing Sequential Consistency In Cache-Based Systems,;Sarita V. Adve, Mark D. Hill,;International Conference on Parallel Processing, August 1990.;Weak Ordering - A New Definition,;Sarita V. Adve, Mark D. Hill,;International Symposium on Computer Architecture (ISCA), June 1990.;Ph.D. Graduates;Madhusudhan Talluri,;Ph.D. Expected August 1995,;Use of Superpages and Subblocking in the Address Translation Hierarchy,;first employment: Sun Microsystems,;current email: madhu@eng.sun.com.;Sarita V. Adve,;Ph.D. November 1993,;Designing Memory Consistency Models for Shared-Memory Multiprocessors,;first employment: Assistant Professor at Rice University,;current email: sarita@rice.edu.;Richard E. Kessler,;Ph.D. July 1991,;Analysis of Multi-Megabyte Secondary CPU Cache Memories;(click here for table of contents),;first employment: Cray Research,;current email: richard.kessler@cray.com.;Last Updated;Wed Aug 14 16:52:16 CDT 1996;Keywords to help search engines rank this page higher than my other pages:;Mark Hill Home Page, Computer Sciences, Wisconsin.;Mark Hill Home Page, Computer Sciences, Wisconsin.;Mark Hill Home Page, Computer Sciences, Wisconsin.;Mark Hill Home Page, Computer Sciences, Wisconsin.;"
"CS110 Section 8; CS110 Section 8; Instructor; Michael Birk; Email: mbirk@cs.wisc.edu; Office: 1302 Comp Sci & St; Phone: 262-6600 (office), 251-7734 (home); Office Hours: Tue 4:30 pm, Wed 2:30 pm, Thu 1:00 pm; (in my office or the lab), or by appointment; Assignments; Program 1 - due Tue 11/12/96; Program 0 - due Tue 11/5/96; Administrative Information; Text: Problem Solving with C++: The Object of Programming,; Walter Savitch, 1996; Room & Time: 115 Psychology, 9:30-10:45 Tuesday & Thursday; Lab:; 1350 Comp Sci & St (""The Vectra Lab""); Syllabus; Computation of Grades; Grading Standards; Late Assignments Policy; Handin Procedures; Cheating and Academic Misconduct; Lab Consultants; Other Links; CS110 Home Page; CS302 Home Page;; An Introduction to Microsoft Windows;; An Introduction to Borland C++;; A Tutorial on Using the Debugger; mbirk@cs.wisc.edu;"
"CS302 Section 12; CS302 Section 12; Instructor; Michael Birk; Email: mbirk@cs.wisc.edu; Office: 1302 Comp Sci & St; Phone: 262-6600 (office), 251-7734 (home); Office Hours: Tue 4:30 pm, Wed 2:30 pm, Thu 1:00 pm; (in my office or the lab), or by appointment; Announcements; Test cases; for Program 6 now available.; Dice code discussed in class; Class Ranking by last four digits of; student ID number; Past Exams now online:; Spring 96,; Fall 95, and; Spring 95; Notes on the Hangman; Assignment (Program 3); Exam I - Monday, October 14, 7:15-9:15, 1325 Comp Sci (same; room as the lecture); Instructions for formatting; Syllabus for first eight weeks; is now available (second eight weeks coming soon); Instructions; on printing your program's output on a computer outside of the lab.; Late policy finalized; Room change: As of 9/10/96, we will meet in 1325 Comp Sci.; Assignments; Program 0 - due Tue 9/10/96; Program 1 - due Tue 9/17/96; Program 2 - due Tue 9/24/96; Program 3 - due Tue 10/8/96; Program 4 - due Tue 10/22/96; Program 5 - due Tue 11/5/96; Program 6 - due Tue 11/12/96; Administrative Information; Text: Problem Solving with C++: The Object of Programming,; Walter Savitch, 1996; Room & Time: 1302 Comp Sci & St, 11:00-12:15 Tuesday & Thursday; Lab:; 1350 Comp Sci & St (""The Vectra Lab""); Syllabus; Computation of Grades; Grading Standards; Late Assignments Policy; Handin Procedures; Cheating and Academic Misconduct; Lab Consultants; Other Links; CS302 Home Page;; An Introduction to Microsoft Windows;; An Introduction to Borland C++;; A Tutorial on Using the Debugger; mbirk@cs.wisc.edu;"
Michael Birk's Home Page; Michael Birk's Home Page; CS302 Section 12; CS110 Section 7; Project List home page; Programming Languages Links; AllTraxx home page;; mbirk@cs.wisc.edu;
"Mark L. McAuliffe;Mark L. McAuliffe;;Computer Sciences Department;University of Wisconsin - Madison;1210 W. Dayton St.;Madison, WI 53706;mcauliff@cs.wisc.edu; Research Interests:;Design and implementation of object-oriented database systems.;; Publications:;M.J. Carey, D.J. DeWitt, M.J. Franklin, N.E. Hall, M.L. McAuliffe,;J.F. Naughton, D.T. Schuh, M.H. Solomon, C.K. Tan, O.G. Tsatalos, S.J.;White and M.J. Zwilling. Shoring;Up Persistent Applications. Proc. ACM SIGMOD, May, 1994.;Mark L. McAuliffe and Marvin H. Solomon. A;Trace-Based Simulation of Pointer Swizzling Techniques.;Proceedings of IEEE Data Engineering, March, 1995.;Mark L. McAuliffe, Michael J. Carey, and Marvin H. Solomon. Towards;Effective and Efficient Free Space Management.;To appear: Proceedings of 1996 ACM SIGMOD Conference, June,;1996.;"
"Marc Shapiro's Page; Marc Shapiro believes, ""'A tautology is a tautology' is a tautology."";; I am currently obsessively fond of disappear fear, repulsed by C++,; pondering fast pointer analyses, watching lots of Jackie Chan movies,; thinking about programming language design, not reading much, trying to; teach elementary school students to think in terms of recursion,; and hoping to be interrupted.;; This is what C. A. R. Hoare wrote about pointers in 1973: ""Their; introduction into high-level languages has been a step backward; from which we may never recover."";; My home page (with my schedule); Todd's; automatic accident generator; Elaine DiMasi's twisty little web page; Amanda Peet's web retreat;Here's my hyper-mode for emacs, with the;pull-down menus and all. Doesn't have all the cool html3 tags yet.;This is the web submissions software;I cobbled together for PLDI. You may be able to get it to work. It now;includes the previously mostly missing file submit.html!;This is my POPL '97 paper.;""Fast and Accurate Flow-Insensitive Points-To Analysis."" Marc Shapiro;and Susan Horwitz. To appear in ACM Symposium on Principles of;Programming Languages, 1997.;My various addresses are:; Marc Shapiro, CS Dept; 1210 W. Dayton St; Madison, WI 53706-1685; 5385 CS; (608)262-1079; mail mds@cs.wisc.edu; talk mds@house.cs.wisc.edu;finger mds@house.cs.wisc.edu; 212 Marion St, Apt. 305; Madison, WI 53703-1953; (608)257-6286;Here's a list of people I don't know. (Really.); Marc Shapiro; (I did meet him once.); Jonathan Goldstein; Paul Ferguson; Lawrence Brown;Last modified: Thu Oct 24 16:45:11 1996 by Marc Shapiro;mds@cs.wisc.edu;"
Rob's Home Page;Rob's Minimalist Home Page;;Last Modified: August 30;Me: Rob Mellencamp;TAship: CS537 - Introduction to Operating Systems;Email: mellen@cs.wisc.edu;Office: 1349 Computer Science Building;Office Phone: 262-5340;Office Hours: 10:00 -11:00 am MWF or by appointment; mellen@cs.wisc.edu;
"cs302-1, cs302-22;CS 302, Sections 1 and 22;T.A. Dave Melski;These pages change frequently. Press the reload button daily.;Getting Started: We already have stuff on the assignments page. If you are uncomfortable with the computer and;the software, this page may have some helpful links.;TA info:; Instructor: David Melski; Office: 5390 Computer Science and Statistics (5th floor); Phone: 262-0018; Office Hours: M 9:50-10:50, 1:00-2:00, W 9:50-10:50; Email: melski@cs.wisc.edu or click; here. (No attachments please).;Section info:; Section 1 meets at 8:50 MWF in 240 Noland.; Section 22 meets at 11:00 MWF in 134 Psychology.; Text: Problem Solving With C++: The Object of Programming, Walter Savitch, Addison Wesley;Publishing, 1996.; CS 302: General stuff for all of 302 (using the lab, using Windows, using;Borland, some C++ reference material, etc.).; This is a rough syllabus for sections 1 and 22.; Email archive for section 1.; Email archive for section 22.;Policy info:; Academic Misconduct (must; read). The rule of thumb is, ``Don't share code.''; Consultants are there to; help.; Grading.; Late Work.; Email should be checked often.;Essential links:; Assignments and solutions.; Handouts.; A list of CS302 tutors is available here.;Last modified: Tue Oct 22 14:00:17 1996 by David Melski;melski@cs.wisc.edu;"
"David Melski's Personal Info Page;David Melski;Current: Department:;618 1/2 S. Mills St. 5390 Computer Science and Statistics;Madison, WI 53715 1210 W. Dayton St.; Madison, WI 53706;(608)259-9197 (608)262-0018;Permenant:;1136 West Ives;Marshfield, WI 54449;(715)384-8282;Michelle is an awesome person. Her page is currently under construction.;My sister Kasey has a;great home page, as does my brother Eric.;This semester I'm teaching a couple of sections of cs302.;I'm also working with Tom Reps in programming languages. My;exact schedule still needs to be determined.;As an undergrad, I majored in Computer Science and Russian Studies;here at the University of Wisconsin. I even spent the fall semester;of '92 in Russia. I don't get a chance to use my Russian very often,;and I miss it a bit. Someday, someday, I'll make it back.;My other interests include chess and soccer. Recently, I've been;biking a bit, too. I've also been distracted from work by numerous;books, and hasty rewrites of my web page.;Here are my;. I also want to put a link to;mapquest. I plan on stealing a;lot of their maps in a second to give directions from Madison to Marshfield.;Last modified: Mon Sep 30 21:45:22 1996 by David Melski;melski@cs.wisc.edu;"
"Home Page - CS302 - Section 4;CS 302; Fall 1996 - Section 4;Algebraic Language Programming in C++;Instructor:; Milo M. Martin;(milo@cs.wisc.edu);Time and Location: 1:20-2:10 pm, MWF, 130 Psychology;Instructor: Milo M.;Martin;Email:;milo@cs.wisc.edu;Office: CS&St 1301;Office Hours: 2:45-3:45 pm, Tuesday/Thursday or by;appointment;Office Phone: (608) 262-6600;Announcements;This page changes frequently, it is your responsibility to;check this page often.; November 6, 1996: Quiz 4;(take-home) will be given out in class today and has been placed on;the homepage.; November 5, 1996: I added the file Using Projects to the program 6;page and the homepage.; November 2, 1996: The room for the test has been scheduled;for 1263 CS. (On Wednesday, November 13, 7:15-9:15 pm.); October 31, 1996: I updated the current grades. It now has;everything through quiz 3. Please check this to make sure it is;accurate.; October 30, 1996: I added links to a couple of pages with;information about HTML, the language used for web pages. The links;are below in the section titled Other Documents.; October 30, 1996: Program 6 is available and is due on;Friday, November 8. There will be a ``take home'' quiz due Monday,;November 11. Reminder: Exam 2 is on Wednesday, November 13.;General Class Information;Current Class Grades;General Information Sheet;Turning in Assignments;Syllabus;Code Style Guide;CS 302 Home Page;Vectra Lab;CS 302 Consultants;Fall 1996 Consulting Schedule;Academic Misconduct Policy;Class Documents; The final BankAccount class code:;BankAccount.cc -;BankAccount.h -;main.cc -;postscript; BankAccount class code -;BankAccount2.cc -;postscript; BankAccount struct code -;BankAccount1.cc -;postscript; minmax.cc - Example code to find;the minimum and maximum in a list of numbers, in this case entered;from stdin.; form.cc - Code which creates form;letters from data specified in files. Uses file IO and the;open_file function introduced in class.; Call-by-reference in-class example; Functions to ask for user input with;prompts (call-by-reference version); Functions to ask for user input with;prompts (call-by-value version);Other Documents;; A Beginner's Guide to HTML - the standard introduction to;the HTML language.; HTML 3.2 reference guide. - a reference guide for the latest HTML standard release.; The Good Times Virus Hoax; ACM - Code of Ethics and;Professional Conduct;Assignments;Class Survey Questionare -;Required - Due Monday, September 9, 1996; Program 0; - Due Wednesday, September 11, 1996; Program 1; - Due Wednesday, September 18, 1996; Program 2; - Due Wednesday, September 25, 1996; Program 3; - Due Friday, October 4, 1996; Program 4; - Due Monday, October 21, 1996; Program 5; - Due Wednesday, October 30, 1996; Program 6; - Due Friday, November 8, 1996; Program 7; - Due TBD; Program 8; - Due TBD; Program 9; - Due Wednesday, December 11, 1996;Quizs;Quiz 1 -; Solutions -; Scores; - Monday, September 23, 1996; Quiz 2 -; Solutions -; Scores; - Wednesday, October 2, 1996; Quiz 3 -; Solutions -; Scores; - Monday, October 28, 1996; Quiz 4 -; Solutions -; Scores; - Take home quiz due Monday, November 11, 1996;Exams;Exam 1 -; Solutions -; Scores; - Wednesday, October 9, 1996; Exam 2 -; Solutions -; Scores; - Wednesday, November 13, 1996; Exam 3 -; Solutions -; Scores; - Tuesday, December 17, 1996;Textbook;Problem Solving;with C++ - The Object of Programming by Walter Savitch;Addison-Wesley Publishing Company, 1996.;List of known errata;Milo M. Martin; (milo@cs.wisc.edu);"
"Milo M. Martin's Home Page;Milo M. Martin (milo@cs.wisc.edu);Graduate Student and Teaching Assistant;Computer Sciences Department;University of Wisconsin-Madison;1210 West Dayton Street;Madison, WI 53706-1685;USA;Email:;milo@cs.wisc.edu;Office: CS&St 1301;Office Phone: (608) 262-6600;Office Hours: 2:45-3:45 pm, Tuesday/Thursday or by;appointment;BA, Computer Science, Gustavus;Adolphus College, 1996;Classes;CS701: Compiler Construction -; Charles N. Fischer;CS752: Advanced Computer Architecture I -; Mark D. Hill;CS838:;Java! (only sitting in) -; Mark D. Hill and; James Larus;Teaching;CS302: Algebraic Language Programming (C++) -; Section 4;Research Interests;I am a first year PhD student interested in programming;languages,;architecture, and systems. Specifically I am interested in:; Compiler (optimization) technology and how it will be;influenced by hardware and operating systems advances.; Mobile programming (such as Java) and what additional challenges this presents to compilers, architecture and operating system designers.; Many, many other things, many of which I don't even know that I;am interested in... yet.;Publications;Research performed summer 1994 and 1995 at Argonne National Laboratory, Technology Development Division,;under the advisement of Charles L. Fink:; C. L. Fink, P. G. Humm, M. M. Martin, and B. J. Micklich,; Evaluation of Few-view Reconstruction Parameters for Illicit;Substance Detection Using Fast-Neutron Transmission Spectroscopy,;IEEE Nuclear Science Symposium and Medical Imaging Conference. (1995); C. L. Fink, B. J. Micklich, T. J. Yule, P. G. Humm, L. Sagalovsky,;and M. M. Martin, Evaluation of Neutron Techniques for Illicit;Substance Detection, Nucl. Inst. Meth. B99, 748-752. (1995);Un-Publications;Research performed during the 1995-96 school year at Gustavus Adolphus College, under the advisement of Max Hailperin.; Milo M. Martin and Max Hailperin, Programming Language;Flexibility and Deterministic Dynamic Parallel Computation,;Senior Honors Thesis, Mathematics and Computer Science Department,;Gustavus Adolphus College. (dvi or postscript);Computing Interests; Java! - Other java resources.; NeXT Software - Once NeXT;Computer, now a software only company.; ACM - ACM (founded 1947) is an;international scientific and educational organization dedicated to;advancing the art, science, engineering, and application of information;technology, serving both professional and public interests by fostering;the open interchange of information and by promoting the highest;professional and ethical standards. (A direct quote from their web page);Personal Interests; NFL Football - I am a big;NFL football fan. Since I lived in Minnesota for over 20 years, my;favorite team is the Minnesota Vikings. (Even;though I now live in the land of cheese heads.); Colonize and Conquer is a multi-player; play-by-e-mail space exploration and combat game which I wrote.; Babylon 5 -;The best show on TV. (IMHO); Atlantis;3.0 - Atlantis is a play-by-email game set in the mythical world of;atlantis. Players build armies, engauge in trade, explore lands, fight each;other and wondering monsters, train wizards, discover the underworld.;Right now there are 200+ players, of which I am one.;; Rules; Current list of;players; Ultimate Frisbee - UPA;(The Ultimate Players Association) - ``Ultimate combines elements of;soccer, football and basketball in a fast-paced game, played with a;frisbee, where everyone is a quarterback and everyone is a receiver.'';(A direct quote from the UPA home page). Ultimate;in ten simple rules.;Milo M. Martin; (milo@cs.wisc.edu);"
"Minos's Home Page; Minos N. Garofalakis;minos@cs.wisc.edu;PhD Candidate/Research Assistant;Department of Computer Sciences;University of Wisconsin - Madison;1210 West Dayton Street;Madison, WI 53706 USA;Office: 7394 CS&STAT;Phone : (608)829-3625 @home, (608)262-6629 @work;Research Interests:; Effective Resource Management; Parallel and Multimedia Database Systems; Complex Query Processing and Optimization; Parallel Algorithms; Database Theory;Education:; M.S. (Computer Science) University of Wisconsin-Madison, Dept. of Computer Sciences, December 1994; B.S. (Computer Science) University of Patras, Dept. of Computer Engineering and Informatics, June 1992;Refereed Publications:; ""Multi-dimensional Resource Scheduling for Parallel Queries"",;by Minos N. Garofalakis and Yannis E. Ioannidis,;Proceedings of the 1996 ACM SIGMOD Conference, Montreal, Canada,;June 1996, pp. 365-376;Abstract,;;Paper (in postscript, ~200K).; ""Scheduling Issues in Multimedia Query Optimization"",;by Minos N. Garofalakis and Yannis E. Ioannidis,;ACM Computing Surveys, Vol. 27, No. 4, December 1995, pp. 590-592;Paper (in postscript, ~107K).;Technical Reports:;""Resource Scheduling in Enhanced Pay-Per-View Continuous Media Databases"",;by Minos N. Garofalakis, Banu Ozden, and Avi Silberschatz,; Submitted for publication, October 1996;""Model-checking for Sequential Probabilistic Real-time Systems"",;by Minos N. Garofalakis,;Technical Report TR-93.02.7, Computer Technology Institute, Patras,;February 1993;Advisor:;Yannis E. Ioannidis;More...;Feel free to peek at my;resume.;Pointers to interesting stuff:;UW-Madison DBMS Reasearch Home Page;;UW-Madison Hellenic Society Home Page;;ACM SIGMOD Home Page; VLDB Home Page; IBM Almaden Research Center; IBM T.J. Watson Research Center;Dr. Michael Ley's Bibliograpy Server on Databases & Logic Programming;;This page is perpetually under construction...;Last Updated: July 14, 1996;"
"Marcelo Gonçalves; Marcelo J. R. Gonçalves;mjrg@cs.wisc.edu; Associate researcher,; Paradyn project.;Address;Work Home;6358 Computer Sciences Department 4817 Sheboygan Av., Apt. 316;1210 West Dayton Street Madison WI 53705;Madison WI 53706 Phone: (608)278-0958;Phone: (608)262-6614;Department of Computer Sciences;University of Wisconsin - Madison;"
"Brian Morgan's Home Page; Brian Morgan;Graduate Student;Computer Sciences Department;University of Wisconsin-Madison;1210 West Dayton Street;Madison, WI 53706;E-mail: morgan@cs.wisc.edu;Telephone: (608) 262-6609;Fax: (608) 265-2635;Advisor; Chuck Dyer;Research Interests;Virtual conferencing systems, image compression, video conferencing,;high bandwidth networking; Related Links of Interest;;Wisconsin Computer Vision Group;"
"Andreas Moshovos's Home Page;Andreas Moshovos;Research Assistant;Department of Computer Sciences;University of Wisconsin-Madison;Advisor:;Guri Sohi;Groups:;Multiscalar;(Wisconsin Kestrel),;UW-CS Computer Architecture;.;Address;;Leave me a note;See if I'm around;Want to peek into the future? Then click;here;My brother writes poetry, click;here;for a sample of his work.;I'm currently working on:; Data Dependence Speculation for OOO processors. Download technical report;;here; (compressed postscript) or;;here;;(uncompressed postscript).; Download talk slides;here;.; Load Balancing on Multiscalar Processors.; Data Speculation for OOO processors.;In general I'm interested in:;Computer Architecture;- Instruction Level Parallelism; Compiler support for ILP explotation; VLSI; Fall '92 - Spring '93: I was a graduate student at the;Courant institute;of;New York University;. I earned no degree since I transfered to Wisconsin, however, I had the;opportunity to work with excellent people and to meet my wife.; M.S. (Computer Science);University of Crete - Greece;,;1992;""Implementing Non-Numerical Algorithms On An Access Decoupled Architecture;That Supports Software Pipelining"";,;Advisor: M. Katevenis. A short description can be found; here; B.S. (Computer Science);University of Crete - Greece;,;1990; ViH;a vi like editor that supports editing in greek.; Many, many interesting;links; Hellenic Resouces Network;Be sure to visit this one.;Obtaining and Installing greek fonts;. Local copy of page residing at;www.hyper.gr;.; Devil's Dictionary!;(394K);My bookmarks.; This is a big mess...;National fraud information center;Usenet changes;.; Want to send a;fax for free?;"
"Home Page for Martin Reames's CS 302 class;CS 302, Sections 33 & 37;Algebraic Language Programming;Spring 1997;Martin Reames, Teaching Assistant;What's New; Absolutely nothing;Everyday information;CS302 Class Information Pages;Common Programming;Mistakes;Archive of;section 33 and section 37;class mailing lists (most messages are sent to both lists).; Semester Calendar; Program 0 due Tuesday,;January 28; Program 1 due Tuesday,;February 4; Program 2 due Tuesday,;February; Program 3 due Thursday,;February; Program 4 due Thursday,;March; EXAM 1 : Tuesday, March ?, 7:15-9:15 p.m., 1257 CS & ST; Program 5 due Tuesday,;March; Program 6 due Thursday, April; Program 7 due Tuesday, April; EXAM 2 : Tuesday, April ?, 7:15-9:15 p.m., 1257 CS & ST; Program 8 due Thursday, April; Program 9 due Thursday, May; FINAL EXAM : Thursday, May 15, 10:05a.m. - 12:05p.m., place;to be announced;Course Details; How to contact me:; email: mreames@cs.wisc.edu; office: 1345 Computer Sciences and Statistics, 1210 W. Dayton St.; phone: 262-1012; Office Hours:; TBA; or by appointment (talk to me after class or send me email); Textbook;Problem Solving with C++: The Object of Programming by Walter Savitch; Section Information:; Section 33; 9:30a-10:45a TR; 379 Noland; Section 37; 1:00p-2:15p TR; 379 Noland; Computer Lab; Rm. 1350, CS&ST, containing HP Vectra's running MS Windows and;Borland C++ 4.52;Additional Course Information; Tentative Syllabus for semester; Extra C++ material; Late Policy; Grading Criteria; Academic;Misconduct Rule of thumb: ""Do not share code for assigned work in any;form"";Former cs302 students who have made it big;Todd Thiel;Wendy Staats;About your instructor...;Last modified: Fri Jan 17 12:33:50 1997 by Martin Reames;mreames@cs.wisc.edu;"
"Martin Reames's Home Page; Martin Reames;Graduate Student/Teaching Assistant (for CS 302);(also, Coke Poobah -- finger the coke machine!);Computer Sciences Department;University of Wisconsin - Madison;1210 W. Dayton St.;Madison, WI 53706-1685;Office: CS 1345;Telephone: (608) 262-1012;Telephone: (608) 262-1204 (dept);Fax: (608) 262-9777;Email: mreames@cs.wisc.edu;Fall 1996 Schedule;Research interests: Databases, in particular digital terrain modelling;(TINs); programming languages, compiler design; logic and logic;programming.;Qualifying exam : Databases, Spring 1997. Some previous years' exams;Job interests: Software design and development in a product oriented;environment that exploits my computer science education and my interests;in databases and/or compiler design.;My resume in postscript;and html.;As distributed to the Wisconsin DB Affiliates on Oct 21, 1996.;BA, Mathematics/Computer Science, Wesleyan University, 1994.;In the ""not for the faint of heart"" section of the web page, here's a;link to my senior honors;thesis on General E-Unification.;I Am The Coke Poobah;Look at my works, ye mighty, and be afraid!!!;Oh dear : I've gone and let this new job of being the Coke Poobah go to;my head. I'm not usually this far gone. Really. If you want to talk to;someone who's better adjusted to his crucial role in UW CS dept life, you;should probably see Elton.;He doesn't even mention being the co-Poobah on his page. Imagine;that.;Besides the aforementioned Coke Poobahship/mental illness, there are a;few other things you might want to know about me. I'm a third year;graduate student in the CS department at Wisconsin, concentrating in;databases, and currently studying for the qual (which will be sometime in;early February). For exercise and relaxation I play squash (reasonably well) all year round,;ultimate frisbee (OK) in the summer, and basketball, poorly and;infrequently; and if you notice such things, you might see me rapidly;riding my mountain bike around campus -- even in the chilliest of weather,;and always with a helmet.;If you wish to learn more about my interests, feel free to examine my;not-very-often-updated hierarchy of stuff I;like. Enjoy.;Wisconsin's on-line library;Last modified: Fri Nov 1 12:59:42 1996 by Martin Reames;mreames@cs.wisc.edu;"
Wisconsin Multiscalar Project Home Page;Wisconsin Multiscalar Project; Technical Papers; Talks Given by Multiscalar People; Contributors; Funding Sources; Related Projects; Available Software; Wisconsin CS's Computer Architecture Group; Computer Sciences Department;at the University of Wisconsin;;World-Wide Computer Architecture Information; Information of interest to local users only; Last Updated: 20 February 1996 by Guri Sohi (sohi@cs.wisc.edu);
"CS 302 Fall 1996 - Section 10;CS 302 Fall 1996 - Section 10;Algebraic Language Programming - C++;Tue./Thu. 2:30-3:45, 455 Noland;Instructor: Mike Steele;Email: msteele@cs.wisc.edu;Office: 1332 Comp Sci & Stat Building;Office Hours: Mon./Wed. 1-2:30pm (or other times by appointment), 1332 CS&S;Office Phone: (608)262-6605;Important Announcements;I have extended the deadline for Program 6;. Please check your e-mail or read the;NEW PROGRAM 6 DEADLINE INFORMATION;Midterm 2 is on Tuesday, November 12th, from;7:15-9:15pm in Comp Sci & Stat 1325 again.;Current grades are on-line. This;includes grades for everything handed in through Tuesday, November 5th.;Sample programs: I've taken some of my examples from the past;few weeks of class and filled in all the stuff I glossed over to make;fully functioning programs out of them. You may find this useful if;you missed a day or even if you were there and didn't understand an example.;They're on the notes and examples page,;near the bottom.;Remember to check your e-mail for clarifications to the programming;assignments.;General Course Information;CS 302 Home Page;Course Objectives;About the Vectra Lab;CS 302 Consultants;Course Syllabus and Reading Assignments;Notes on Working from Home;Class Handouts;Programming Assignments;Exams and Quizzes;Some notes and examples;Policy Information;Email Policy;Grading Policy (and Late Policy);Academic Misconduct Policy;Useful Reference Pages;Introduction to Microsoft Windows;Introduction to Borland C++;Greg Sharp's Style;Guide for C++ code;Text;Problem Solving;with C++ - The Object of Programming by Walter Savitch;Addison-Wesley Publishing Company, 1996.;List of known errata;Last modified:;Wed Nov 6, 1996, by Mike Steele;(msteele@cs.wisc.edu);"
"Mike Steele's WWW Homepage;Mike Steele's WWW Homepage;msteele@cs.wisc.edu;Office: 1332 Comp Sci & Stat Building;;Me sitting in the Univ. of Maryland CS department's computer lab,;struggling through my undergraduate operating systems class sometime;around April 1995. Note the time stamp in the lower right corner says;""4:05"". That's AM folks...;I'm a graduate student in the;Computer Sciences Department at the;University of Wisconsin--Madison (School Motto: ""Come and freeze;in the land of cheese""). My research and study interests center;around artificial;intelligence,;computer vision,;and operating systems (I hope to narrow it down some in the coming years).;This semester, I am a graduate;instructor for;Section 10 of CS 302 (Algebraic Language Programming).;I received my;Bachelor's Degree in May 1996 from the;University of Maryland's;Computer Science Department.;Publications;Grindstone: A Test Suite For Parallel Performance Tools. Jeffery;K. Hollingsworth and Michael Steele. Computer Science Technical Report;CS-TR-3703, University of Maryland, Oct. 1996. (gzipped PostScript;File);Classes This Semester;CS 537: Introduction to Operating Systems with Mary Vernon;CS 540: Introduction to Artificial Intelligence with Chuck Dyer;My Other Pages;Information on getting;in touch with me (for all my friends back in Maryland;whom I forgot to e-mail with my new addresses);My favorite links;My favorite sports teams;Some of my friends.;The Usenet Dave Barry Frequently Asked Questions list;The Usenet Billy Joel Frequently Asked Questions list;I'm also the mailing list administrator for the;Fruit-of-the-Day mailing list (still hosted by the University of;Maryland), which started as an inside;joke around my office, but got out of hand sometime in 1994 and;now has over 400 members world-wide.;If you're the predator and you're coming to kill me, I have some;infrared photos of myself so you'll know what I look;like.;An infrared picture of me;Mike Steelemsteele@cs.wisc.eduUniversity of Wisconsin--MadisonComputer Sciences Department;"
"Maria's Home Page;Maria's Home Page;How about a visit to the University of Maryland-College Park??;Or maybe the University of Wisconsin-Madison??;If you are in my CS132 lab sections, you might want to visit this page-->;"
"Anastassia G. Ailamaki Home; Welcome home!; Anastassia G. Ailamaki; Graduate Student, Computer Sciences Department; University of Wisconsin, Madison; 1210 W. Dayton Street; Madison, WI 53705; Phone: (608) 2652311;Nah, you don't really really want to see this;picture .;IMPORTANT NOTICE: When she finds the time, she'll make a decent home page.;Nice links:;George's ""What's What in Rochester, NY"";and;Alex's Guide To The Greek Islands;are worth visiting!;Send me an e-mail!!!; natassa@cs.wisc.edu;Mon Sep 9 12:10:57 CDT 1996;"
"Jeffrey F. Naughton;Jeffrey F. Naughton;naughton@cs.wisc.edu;Research Interests;OLAP, multi-dimensional data analysis, parallel object-relational;DBMS. The overall goal of my research is the development of;database systems that surpass current database systems both in;performance and in ease of use. Currently I have three main areas of;interest. (1) Techniques for improving the performance of;multi-dimensional data analysis, including array-based storage and;processing algorithms, bit-map indices, and algorithms for computing;the ""cube""; (2) The performance of object-relational database systems,;including benchmarking O/R DBMS, algorithms for set-valued;attributes, and techniques for parallelizing O/R workloads; (3);Parallel geo-spatial information systems.;Recent Publications;;On the Computation of Multidimensional Aggregates (with;Sameet Agarwal, Rakesh Agrawal, Prasad M. Deshpande, Ashish Gupta,;Raghu Ramakrishnan, and Sunita Sarawagi. In proceedings of the;22nd International Conference on Very Large Databases, Mumbai (Bombay), 1996.; Storage Estimation for Multidimensional Aggregates;in the Presence of Hierarchies (with;Amit Shukla, Prasad M. Deshpande, and Karthikeyan Ramasamy.);22nd International Conference on Very Large Databases, Mumbai (Bombay), 1996.;The BUCKY Object-Relational Database Benchmark (with;Michael Carey, David DeWitt, Johannes Gerhke, Dhaval Shah,;and Mohammed Asgarian). In preparation.;Toward a MOLAP ADT for an Object-Relational DBMS (with;Yihong Zhao and Kristin Tufte, submitted for;publication.;"
"Navin Kabra;Navin Kabra;Graduate Student; Department of Computer Sciences;University of Wisconsin-Madison;Advisor:; David DeWitt;Research Area:; Databases;Research Interests:;; Customizable Query Optimization;; The Paradise Project; See my;;.plan for my address.; If you have nothing better to do, you can; go in here and explore; my bookmarks. Or, you could have a; look at some Indian Stuff ,; which includes among other things an archive of; Hindi Songs.; navin@cs.wisc.edu.; PGP Public Key is here.;;"
"Tia Newhall;Tia Newhall; (newhall@cs.wisc.edu);Graduate Student;1210 W. Dayton St.;Madison, WI 53706-1685;Telephone: (608) 262-6615;Research Interests:; Parallel and Distributed Systems; Performance Tools; Scalability Analysis and Performance Prediction; Java;Research Group: Paradyn;Advisor: Bart Miller;mummy pictures from Guanajuato; Last Changed: 17 August, 1995;"
"Nancy Hall;Computer Sciences Department;University of Wisconsin -- Madison;1210 West Dayton Street;Madison, WI 53706-1685;608/262-5945;Project: SHORE: a Scalable Heterogeneous Object REpository;"
"Welcome to the Home Page of NARAYANAN Srinivasa Prasanna (NSP);The Present...; Graduate student, at the CS Department at the University of Wisconsin, Madison .;The Past...;I come from Madras, the capital of TamilNadu , India .;Did my high schooling at P.S. Senior Secondary School, Madras.;The coolest part of my life so far has been my Undergrad;at IIT, Madras .;I never wanted to leave that place but they chucked me out with a Bachelors in;Computer Science in 1995. I spent those four lovely years at Godavari Hostel .;We do maintain a homepage for the cool dudes of the Godav class of '95 .;You can get to some of my favourite links; Want to reach me? Send mail to : nsp@cs.wisc.edu;"
"Olvi L. Mangasarian's Home Page;;Olvi L. Mangasarian; John von Neumann Professor of Mathematics and Computer Sciences,;and member of the Center for the Mathematical Sciences; Computer Sciences Department; University of Wisconsin; 1210 W. Dayton St.; Madison, WI 53706-1685; Telephone: (608) 262-1204; Fax: (608) 262-9777; Email: olvi@cs.wisc.edu;Ph.D., Harvard University, 1959;Interests:;Mathematical programming, machine learning, and parallel computing; Research Summary;Optimization theory is rich mathematically while being very effective;computationally in solving many real-life problems. My interests;in this topic have ranged over a broad spectrum that encompasses;theoretical aspects, such as error bounds for mathematical programs;and variational inequalities, convergence proofs for parallel;gradient and variable distribution algorithms for optimization,;smoothing techniques for solving constrained optimization problems;as differentiable nonlinear equations, as well as applications;to machine learning, both in general and specific contexts. An;important aspect of my research is the use of mathematical programming;techniques in diagnosing breast cancer, that has resulted in a;highly accurate computerized diagnostic system in current use;at University of Wisconsin Hospitals.; Current PhD Students;; Paul Bradley; Recent Publications; O. L. Mangasarian and M. V. Solodov;A Linearly Convergent Descent Method for Strongly Monotone;Complementarity Problems.;Mathematical Programming Technical Report 96-07, October 1996.; O. L. Mangasarian and Jong-Shi Pang;Exact Penalty Functions for Mathematical Programs;with Linear Complementarity Constraints.;Mathematical Programming Technical Report 96-06, August 1996.; O. L. Mangasarian;Mathematical Programming in Data Mining;Mathematical Programming Technical Report 96-05, August 1996.; O. L. Mangasarian;Error Bounds for Nondifferentiable Convex Inequalities under a Strong S;later Constraint Qualification.;Mathematical Programming Technical Report 96-04, July 1996.; P. S. Bradley, O. L. Mangasarian and W. N. Street;;Clustering via Concave Minimization.;Mathematical Programming Technical Report 96-03, May 1996.;Submitted to Neural Information Processing Systems 1996.; W. N. Street, O. L. Mangasarian and W. H. Wolberg;;Individual and Collective Prognostic Prediction.;Mathematical Programming Technical Report 96-01, January 1996.; P. S. Bradley, O. L. Mangasarian and W. N. Street;;Feature Selection via Mathematical Programming.;Mathematical Programming Technical Report 95-21, December 1995.;Submitted to INFORMS Journal on Computing.; O. L. Mangasarian;;Machine Learning via Polyhedral Concave Minimization.;Mathematical Programming Technical Report 95-20, November 1995.;""Applied Mathematics and Parallel Computing -- Festschrift for;Klaus Ritter"", H. Fischer, B. Riedmueller, S. Schaeffler, editors,;Physica-Verlag, Germany 1996, 175-188.; O. L. Mangasarian;;The Ill-Posed Linear Complementarity Problem.;Mathematical Programming Technical Report 95-15, August 1995.;Submitted to SIAM Proceedings of the International;Symposium on Complementarity Problems, Baltimore, MD,;November 1-4, 1995. Revised November 1995.; W. Nick Street and O. L. Mangasarian;;Improved Generalization via Tolerant Training.;Mathematical Programming Technical Report 95-11, July 1995.; O. L. Mangasarian;;Mathematical Programming in Machine Learning.;Mathematical Programming Technical Report 95-06, April 1995,;Revised July 1995.;To appear in Proceedings of Nonlinear Optimization and;Applications Workshop, Erice June 1995, Plenum Press.; Chunhui Chen and O. L. Mangasarian;;Hybrid Misclassification Minimization.;Mathematical Programming Technical Report 95-05, February 1995,;Revised July 1995 and August 1995.;To appear in Advances in Computational Mathematics.; O. L. Mangasarian;;Optimization in Machine Learning.;Mathematical Programming Technical Report 95-01, January 1995.;SIAG/OPT Views-and-News 6, 1995, 3-7.; Chunhui Chen and O. L. Mangasarian;;A Class of Smoothing Functions for Nonlinear and Mixed Complementarity Problems.;Mathematical Programming Technical Report 94-11, August 1994.;Revised October 1994, February 1995 and September 1995.;Computational Optimization and Applications 5, 1996, 97-138.; O. L. Mangasarian, W. Nick Street and W. H. Wolberg;;Breast Cancer Diagnosis and Prognosis via Linear Programming.;Mathematical Programming Technical Report 94-10, August 1994.;Revised December 1994.;Operations Research 43(4), July-August 1995, 570-577.; O. L. Mangasarian;;The Linear Complementarity Problem as a Separable Bilinear Program.;Mathematical Programming Technical Report 94-09, July 1994.;Journal of Global Optimization 6, 1995, 153-161.; O. L. Mangasarian and M. V. Solodov;;Backpropagation Convergence via Deterministic Nonmonotone Perturbed Minimization.;Mathematical Programming Technical Report 94-06, June 1994.;Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 6,;(J. D. Cowan, G. Tesauro and J. Alspector, editors) 383-390,;Morgan Kaufmann Publishers, San Francisco, California 1994.; Chunhui Chen and O. L. Mangasarian;;Smoothing Methods for Convex Inequalities;and Linear Complementarity Problems.;Computer Sciences Technical Report 1191r, November 1993.;Revised November 1994.;Mathematical Programming 71, 1995, 51-69.; O. L. Mangasarian;;Misclassification Minimization.;Computer Sciences Technical Report 1186, October 1993.;Revised September 1994.;Journal of Global Optimization 5(4), December 1994, 309-323.; O. L. Mangasarian and M. V. Solodov;;Serial and Parallel Backpropagation for Neural Nets via;Nonmonotone Perturbed Minimnization.;Computer Sciences Technical Report 1149r, April 1993.;Revised December 1993.;Optimization Methods and Software 4, 1994, 103-116.;Chronological cancer bibliography; WWW Page of Other Publications of MP Group at Wisconsin;ftp papers and reports;View and download papers and reports of MP Group;View home page of MP Group.; periodically updated by olvi@cs.wisc.edu;"
"Machine Learning for Cancer Diagnosis and Prognosis;Machine Learning for Cancer Diagnosis and Prognosis;This page describes various linear-programming-based machine learning;approaches which have been applied to the diagnosis and prognosis of;breast cancer. This work is the result of a collaboration at the;University of Wisconsin-Madison between;Prof. Olvi L. Mangasarian;of the Computer Sciences Department and;Dr. William H. Wolberg;of the departments of Surgery and Human Oncology.;Here is a copy of the;press release;distributed at the American Cancer Society Science Writers seminar in;March of 1994. It provides a good overview of this research.;Table of Contents; Diagnosis; Prognosis; Bibliography; Citation in the Popular Press; Local Related Links; Other Related Links;Diagnosis;This work grew out of the desire by Dr. Wolberg to accurately diagnose;breast masses based solely on a Fine Needle Aspiration (FNA). He;identified nine visually assessed characteristics of an FNA sample which;he considered;relevant to diagnosis. In collaboration with Prof. Mangasarian and;two of his graduate students, Rudy Setiono and;Kristin Bennett, a;classifier was constructed using the multisurface method (MSM) of pattern;separation on these nine features that;successfully diagnosed 97% of new cases. The resulting data set is;well-known as the;Wisconsin Breast Cancer Data.;The image analysis work began in 1990 with the addition of;Nick Street;to the research team. The goal was to diagnose the sample based on a;digital image of a small section of the FNA slide. The results of;this research have been consolidated into a software system known as;Xcyt, which is currently used by Dr. Wolberg in his clinical;practice. The diagnosis process is now performed as follows:; An FNA is taken from the breast mass. This material is then;mounted on a microscope slide and stained to highlight the cellular;nuclei. A portion of the slide in which the cells are;well-differentiated is then scanned using a digital camera and a;frame-grabber board.; The user then isolates the individual nuclei using Xcyt.;Using a mouse pointer, the user draws the approximate boundary of;each nucleus. Using a computer vision approach known as ""snakes"",;these approximations then converge to the exact nuclear boundaries.;This interactive process takes between two and five minutes per slide.;Here is an image showing;Xcyt in use.; Once all (or most) of the nuclei have been isolated in this;fasion, the program computes values for each of ten characteristics of;each nuclei, measuring size, shape and texture. The mean, standard;error and extreme values of these features are computed, resulting in;a total of 30 nuclear features for each sample.; Based on a training set of 569 cases, a linear classifier was;constructed to differentiate benign from malignant samples. This;classifier consists of a single separating plane in the space of three;of the features: Extreme Value of Area, Extreme Value of Smoothness,;and Mean Value of Texture. By projecting all the cases onto the;normal of this separating plane, approximate;probability densities of;the benign and;malignant points were constructed. These allow a simple Bayesian;computation of probability of malignancy for new patients. These;densities are shown to the patient, allowing her to judge the;""confidence"" of her diagnosis by comparison to hundreds of previous samples.;To date, this system has correctly diagnosed 176 consecutive new;patients (119 benign, 57 malignant). In only eight of those cases did;Xcyt return a ""suspicious"" diagnosis (that is, an estimated;probability of malignancy between 0.3 and 0.7).;A small subset of the source images used in this research can be found; here. These are very good;test cases for;image segmentation or object recognition algorithms. If your pet;segmentation algorithm can automatically identify all of the nuclei in;these images, please email me (street@cs.wisc.edu) and let's work together.;Prognosis;The second problem considered in this research is that of prognosis,;the prediction of the long-term behavior of the disease. We have;approached prognosis as a function-approximation problem, using input;features -- including those computed by Xcyt;-- to predict a;time of recurrence in malignant patients, using right-censored data.;Our solution is termed;the Recurrence Surface Approximation method (RSA), and utilizes a linear;program to construct a surface which predicts time of recurrence for;new patients. By examining the actual recurrence of those training cases;with similar predicted recurrence times, we can plot the probability of;disease-free survival for various times (out to 10 years) for an;individual patient. This capability has been incorporated into;Xcyt and an example is shown;here.;These survival curves plot the probability of disease-free survival versus;time (in years).;The black disease-free survival curve represents all patients in our;original study; the red curve represents the probability of;disease-free survival for the sample case. This particular case therefore;has an above-average prognosis, with a probability of being disease-free;after 10 years equal to about 80%.;The RSA procedure can also be used to compare the predictive power of;various prognostic factors. Our results indicate that precise,;detailed cytological information of the type provided by Xcyt;gives better prognostic accuracy than the traditional factors Tumor;Size and Lymph Node Status. If corroborated by other researchers,;this result could remove the need for the often painful axillary lymph;node surgery.;Chronological Bibliography;Linked papers are provided in postscript format; if you don't have a;postscript viewer, you can download the file (e.g., shift-click in Netscape);and print it. Abstracts are ASCII text. To obtain papers which are not;linked, please contact the first author.; O.L. Mangasarian, R. Setiono and W.H. Wolberg.; Pattern Recognition via Linear Programming: Theory and; Application to Medical Diagnosis.; In; Proceedings of the Workshop on Large-Scale Numerical; Optimization,; 1989, pages 22-31, Philadelphia, PA. SIAM.; O.L. Mangasarian and W. H. Wolberg.; Cancer Diagnosis via Linear Programming. SIAM News,; Vol. 23, 1990, pages 1 & 18.; W.H. Wolberg and O.L. Mangasarian.; Multisurface Method of Pattern Separation for Medical; Diagnosis Applied to Breast Cytology.; Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, U.S.A.,; Vol. 87, 1990, pages 9193-9196.; W.N. Street.; Toward Automated Cancer Diagnosis: An Interactive; System for Cell Feature Extraction.; Technical Report 1052, Computer Sciences Department,; University of Wisconsin, October 1991.; W.H. Wolberg, K.P. Bennett and O.L. Mangasarian.; Brast Cancer Diagnosis and Prognostic Determination; from Cell Analysis.; Manuscript, 1992,; Departments of Surgery and Human Oncology and; Computer Sciences, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI 53706.; W.H. Wolberg, W.N. Street, and O.L. Mangasarian.; Breast Cytology; Diagnosis via Digital Image Analysis.;Analytical and Quantitative Cytology and Histology,; Vol. 15 No. 6, pages 396-404, December 1993.; (abstract); W.N. Street, W.H. Wolberg and O.L. Mangasarian.;; Nuclear Feature Extraction For Breast Tumor Diagnosis.; In; IS&T/SPIE 1993 International Symposium on Electronic Imaging:; Science and Technology,; volume 1905, pages 861-870, San Jose, CA, 1993.; (abstract); W.H. Wolberg, W.N. Street, and O.L. Mangasarian.; Machine learning; techniques to diagnose breast cancer from fine-needle aspirates.;Cancer Letters; Vol. 77, pages 163-171, 1994.; (abstract); W. N. Street;; Cancer Diagnosis and Prognosis via; Linear-Programming-Based Machine Learning.; Ph.D. Dissertation, University of Wisconsin-Madison, August; 1994.; Available as UW Mathematical Programming Technical Report 94-14.; (abstract); W.H. Wolberg, W.N. Street, D.M. Heisey, and O.L. Mangasarian.;; Computerized breast cancer diagnosis and prognosis from fine needle; aspirates.; Archives of Surgery 1995; 130:511-516.; (abstract); W.H. Wolberg, W.N. Street, and O.L. Mangasarian.;; Image analysis and machine learning applied to breast cancer; diagnosis and prognosis.;Analytical and Quantitative Cytology and Histology,; Vol. 17 No. 2, pages 77-87, April 1995.; (abstract); W.H. Wolberg, W.N. Street, D.M. Heisey, and O.L. Mangasarian.;; Computer-derived Nuclear Features Distinguish Malignant from Benign; Breast Cytology.;Human Pathology,; Vol. 26, pages 792-796, 1995.; (abstract); W.H. Wolberg, W.N. Street, D.M. Heisey, and O.L. Mangasarian.;; Computer-derived Nuclear ``Grade'' and Breast Cancer Prognosis.;Analytical and Quantitative Cytology and Histology,; Vol. 17 No. 4, pages 257-264, August 1995.; (abstract); O.L. Mangasarian, W.N. Street and W.H. Wolberg.;; Breast cancer diagnosis and prognosis via linear programming.;Operations Research,; 43(4), pages 570-577, July-August 1995.; Available as UW Mathematical Programming Technical Report 94-10.; (abstract); W. N. Street, O. L. Mangasarian, and W.H. Wolberg.;; An inductive learning approach to prognostic prediction.;Proceedings of the Twelfth International Conference on; Machine Learning,; A. Prieditis and S. Russell, eds., pages 522-530,; Morgan Kaufmann, 1995.; (abstract); M. W. Teague, W. H. Wolberg, W. N. Street, O. L. Mangasarian,; S. C. Call and D. L. Page.; Indeterminate Fine Needle Aspiration of the Breast:; Image Analysis Aided Diagnosis.; Cancer,; submitted.; (abstract); W. N. Street, O. L. Mangasarian, and W. H. Wolberg.;; Individual and collective prognostic prediction.; Technical Report 96-01, Computer Sciences Department, University of; Wisconsin, Madison, WI, January 1996. Submitted to ICML and AAAI conferences.; (abstract);Citation in the Medical and Popular Press; News from Medicine segment,; CNN Prime News, March 12, 1994.; Breast Biopsy Without Surgery.; Tim Friend,; USA Today,; March 24, 1994.; Cancer Detection Imitates Oil Prospecting.; Joe Manning,; Milwaukee Sentinel,; March 24, 1994.; Analyzing Breast Cancer.; Detroit News,; March 28, 1994.; A High-tech Cancer Hunt.; Marilynn Marchione,; Milwaukee Journal,; March 28, 1994.; Computerized Interpretation of Breast FNA Biopsies: Progress Reported,; Oncology Times,; April 1994.; Computer Program Hunts Breast Cancer,; Ruth SoRelle,; Houston Chronicle,; April 22, 1994.; Computer Program May Improve Interpretation of Aspirate,; Oncology News International,; May 1994.; New Data Suggest Needle Biopsies Could Replace Surgical Biopsy; for Diagnosing Breast Cancer.; Journal of the American Medical Association,; Medical News & Perspectives column, June 9, 1994, Vol. 271, No. 22.; Diagnosis Via Image Analysis and Machine Learning,; Cope,; September/October 1994.; Computer Seeks Out Breast Cancer,; Madison Capital Times,; January 17, 1995.; Computer-Aided Cancer Prediction,; Los Angeles Times,; January 25, 1995.;Local Related Links;; UW Mathematical Programming Group;; UW Machine Learning Group;; UW Medical School;Other Related Links;; The National Library of Medicine (NLM);; University of Nevada Center for Biomedical Modeling Research;; OncoLink;; Washington University Institute for Biomedical Computing;paulb@cs.wisc.edu;"
"Pattern Separation via Mathematical Programming;Pattern Separation via Mathematical Programming;This WWW page describes work in Pattern Separation via Linear Programming in;the Mathematical Programming section of the;University of Wisconsin-Madison Computer Sciences Department.;Brief History and Method Outline;Mathematical optimization approaches, in particular linear programming, have;long been used in problems of pattern separation.;In [65] linear programs were used to construct planes;to separate linearly separable point sets.;Separation by a nonlinear surface;using linear programming was also described, whenever the surface;parameters appeared linearly,;e.g. a quadratic or polynomial surface. These formulations however could fail;on sets that were not separable by a surface linear in its parameters.;A Multisurface Method (MSM) [68,93];avoided this difficulty. MSM separates 2 disjoint finite point sets in;n-dimensional Euclidean space as follows:; Choose 2 parallel planes in n-dimensional Euclidean space; as close together so that only the region between the two planes; contains points from both sets (i.e. the regions NOT between the; 2 parallel planes contain only points of 1 set or no points).; Discard the points in the regions not between the 2 parallel planes.; Repeat the process on the points between the 2 parallel planes, until; the region between the 2 parallel planes contains no points or very; few points.;;Multisurface Method Tree (MSM-T),;a variant on the Multisurface Method was developed in;[92a], [92b], [93].;Let A and B be finite disjoint point sets in n-dimensional Euclidean;space.;The goal of MSM-T is to;determine a sequence of planes in n-dimensional Euclidean;space that separate the sets A and B as follows:; Determine a plane in n-dimensional Euclidean space that; minimizes the average ""distances"" of misclassified points. A point from; set A is misclassified if it lies on the side of the separating; plane assigned to B.; Similarly, a point from set B is misclassified if it lies; on the side of the separating plane assigned to A.; If the regions assigned to A and B contain only (or; mostly) points of the set A or B, then stop.; Otherwise, generate another; error-minimizing plane (in 1.) in this region.;The sequence of planes generated can be viewed as a decision tree. For each;node in the tree, the best split of the points reaching that node is found;by solving the LP in 1, above. The node is split into 2 branches, and the;same procedure is applied until there are only (or mostly) points of one;set at the node. This linear programming approach can also be viewed as;training a neural network with 1 hidden layer;(see [93]).;MSM-T has been shown to learn concepts as well or better than more traditional;learning methods such as C4.5 and CART. It also has an advantage over;artificial neural network (ANN) methods such as backpropagation in;that training proceeds much faster (see [92a]).;Implementations of MSM-T;;MSM-T has been implemented in C using the MINOS numerical;optimization package by Nick Street and Kristin Bennett. MSM-T has also been implemented;for the MATLAB;optimization package by Paul Bradley. Following is a description of the MATLAB implementation of MSM-T. Together with the M-files;required to run it.;Chronological Bibliography; [65] O. L. Mangasarian.; Linear and Nonlinear Separation of Patterns by Linear Programming.; Operations Research, Vol. 13, No. 3, May-June, 1965, pages; 444 - 452.; [68] O. L. Mangasarian.; Multisurface Method of Pattern Separation. IEEE; Transactions on; Information Theory, Vol. IT-14, No. 6, November 1968, pages; 801 - 807.; [92a] K. P. Bennett.; Decision Tree Construction via Linear Programming. Proceedings of the 4th Midwest Artificial Intelligence and Cognitive Science Society Conference, 1992, pages 97 - 101.; [92b] K. P. Bennett and O. L. Mangasarian.; Robust Linear Programming Discrimination of Two Linearly Inseparable Sets. Optimization Methods and Software, Vol. 1, 1992, pages 23 - 34.; [93] O. L. Mangasarian.; Mathematical Programming in Neural Networks. ORSA Journal on Computing, Vol. 5, No. 4, Fall 1993, pages 349 - 360.;Last modified: Wed Jul 12 10:40:37 1995 by Paul Bradley;paulb@cs.wisc.edu;"
"Paradyn Project Home Page;;Paradyn Parallel Performance Tools; Release Information;This page contains describes how you can get a copy of;Release 1.1 of the Paradyn tools.; Project Goals;The Paradyn Parallel Program Performance Tools project is exploring new;approaches to building scalable tools for parallel program performance.; Technical Papers; Paradyn Manuals;Status Report;A recent status report (Jan '95) on the Blizzard/Paradyn Project.;1996 ARPA CSS PI Meeting Panel Presentation;This presentation was made at the 1996 ARPA CSTO meeting in;San Antonio.;1995 ARPA CSTO ""Super Symbol Table"" Presentation;This presentation was made at the 1995 ARPA CSTO meeting in;Florida.;This project is an effort to develop common access routines to;compiler-generated information used by tools for high-level parallel;languages; Project Staff; Super Computing 1994 Poster;A hypertext version of our poster from Super Computing 1994;Related Projects Elsewhere; SPDT 96;1st ACM/SIGMETRICS Symposium on Parallel and Distributed Tools;You can also see:;Restaurants;(this is included in the Paradyn page as a temporary placeholder).; Contact Information;Paradyn Project;Department of Computer Sciences;University of Wisconsin;1210 West Dayton Street;Madison, WI 53706;Email: paradyn@cs.wisc.edu;FAX: (608) 262-9777;Last modified:;Tue Oct 1 17:12:32 CDT 1996;by; bart@cs.wisc.edu;"
"Steven Parker's Home Page; Steven T. Parker; Graduate Student; Computer Sciences Department; University of Wisconsin-Madison; 1210 West Dayton Street; Madison, Wisconsin 53706; Office: 6372 CS&S, (608) 262-6617;parker@cs.wisc.edu;; Depth Area:;Numerical Analysis; Employment:;PRISM Project;Fall 1996 Schedule:;MATH 623: MWF 9:55 - 10:45;CS 564: MWF 11:00 - 12:15;CS 799: W 2:30 - 3:30;PRISM: MWF 8:00-9:30, 1:00-3:30, TTh 10:30-3:30;Related Links:;UW CS Home Page;CS Lab Home Page;; Send mail now; Last modified: Thu Sep 12 1996;"
"PSB Home Page; Paul Bradley;Graduate Student;Computer Sciences Department;University of Wisconsin-Madison;paulb@cs.wisc.edu;Office: 6390 CS;Phone: 608 262 6619;Advisor: O. L. Mangasarian;Interests;Mathematical Programming;Machine Learning;Fly-Fishing;Publications;All papers are stored in postscript format, abstracts are ASCII text. If you do not have a postscript viewer, you can download the file (e.g. shift-click, if you're using Netscape) and print it.; P. S. Bradley, O. L. Mangasarian, and W. N. Street.; Feature selection via mathematical programming.;Mathematical Programming Technical Report 95-21, Computer Sciences Department, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin, December 1995 - Revised March 1996. Submitted to INFORMS Journal on Computing.;(abstract); P. S. Bradley, O. L. Mangasarian, and W. N. Street.; Clustering via concave minimization.;Mathematical Programming Technical Report 96-03, Computer Sciences Department, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin, May 1996. Accepted for presentation Neural Information Processing Systems 1996.;(abstract);Nick Street and I at work.;Last modified: Thu Jul 6 11:04:45 1995 by Paul Bradley;paulb@cs.wisc.edu;"
"Pete DeVries's Home Page;Peter J. DeVries; Internet Tools Specialist Room 1334 Computer Sciences 1210 West;Dayton St. Madison, WI 53706 608-263-2622 pdevries@cs.wisc.edu;I am the Internet Tools Specialist for InterNIC Net Scout. What this means is;that I read everything about Internet technology, try to make sense of it and;then write overview articles for the Net Scout Toolkit. The great thing is that I;read everything and think about it anyway, so it was rather foolish for them to;pay me to do this (But don't tell them!).;Eric Hazen and I also;provide most of the technical and Webmaster services for the Net Scout group,;although we do get a lot of excellent help from the Computer Systems Lab (CSL) and the folks;at InterNIC.;Before recently joining the Net Scout Team, I worked at the Laboratory of Molecular;Biology and the Integrated Microscopy Resource;(IMR), an NIH Biomedical Resource for nearly eight years. At Molecular;Biology I was fortunate to co-develop with Prof. Sean;Carroll and his lab a technique for creating multiple label confocal images.;Basically these are cool looking images of developing embryos that get on a lot;of journal and book covers. I also developed the Molecular Biology Web site.;At the IMR, I was fortunate to work with Prof. John;White and the rest of the IMR;staff. While at the IMR, I developed their Web site which received 4-stars in;the Magellan Internet Guide. My last major project involved the co-development of;a 4 Dimensional Microscope for studying how embryos develop. This microscope is;described in an article which appeared in the August;2nd 1996 issue of the Journal Science.;Here are some photos of guests of Net Scout Labs.;Standard Info;[ Resume ];[ Related Experience ];[ Publications ];[ Presentations ];Updated: Tuesday, December 10, 1996;"
"Yumpee's Home Page;Manoj Plakal; Graduate Slave;Dept of Computer Science;UniversityofWisconsin-Madison; Some blah about me;; My home country is; India. Though; I'm originally from the state of; Kerala,; I've stayed all my life in; Calcutta.; I studied at Don Bosco School, Calcutta; which is run by The Salesians of Don Bosco.; I did my undergrad at; IIT Kanpur with; my major in Computer Science & Engineering. I'm currently a first-year; graduate student supported by a teaching assistantship in the; Department of Computer Sciences at; the University of Wisconsin-Madison, staring; down the barrel of a Ph.D. in either; Computer Architecture or; Programming; Languages.; My interests;;Music : rock/metal/alternative/blues;; Movies, books and all that;; CS stuff; ( acads/hacking/industry and other geeky/nerdy stuff ); Featured on this home page :;;An IIT Kanpur Chat Gateway;The IIT Kanpur CS & E Class; of '96; ( see also:; the IITK Class; of '96);;Links to my friends;Snaps of me with my friends;A pinup gallery (every nerd needs; 'em);; Check out my bookmarks for links; or my WWW-page access logs to see who's visiting; my pages;; Contact via;; 7 North Randall Avenue #1; Madison, WI 53715;; 1349 Computer Sciences; University of Wisconsin-Madison; 1210 W Dayton Street; Madison, WI 53706;; (608)-250 0227;; (608)-262-5340;;plakal@cs.wisc.edu;plakal@cs.wisc.edu; Acknowledgements :;Suresh Venkat for; the nifty table above;;Igor Ivanisevic for the 'Graduate; Slave' wisecrack;; Icons from various corners of the Web; Last updated on;"
"Prasad's Home Page; Page under constuction. Meanwhile ...;; Prasad Deshpande; Hi !! I'm a graduate student at the;Computer Sciences Deparment ,; University of Wisconsin, Madison; Home Address; 304 Princeton Ave, #2; Madison, WI-53705; Tel : (608)-236-0193; (608)-232-1751; Office Address; 7366 Computer Sciences Building,; University of Wisconsin, Madison; 1210 W. Dayton St.,; Madison, WI-53706; Tel : (608)-262-6624; Academic Interests; Database Systems, Theory; Research Area; Databases; Current Schedule; FIN 720 : Theory of Investments MW 11.00-12.15; OIM 730 : Managerial Economics TR 2.30-3.45; CS 899 : Meetings Fri 11.00 with Prof. Jeff Naughton; Music 131 : Introduction to Music Theory MWF 9.55-10.45; Publications; On the computation of multidimensional aggregates . VLDB '96; Storage estimation for multidimensional;aggregates in the presence of hierarchies . VLDB '96; Some Interesting Course Projects; RPC Package for Java .; Download .; More about me !; Want to spend some more time ?; Timex World Map; Find out about India; Dilbert and other comix; Explore my bookmarks;; Go to a random link;Finger me if you have to.; Hakuna Matata !; Info on creating web pages;"
"Vishy's home page;Viswanath Poosala, Research Assistant; Computer Sciences Department; University of Wisconsin Madison; 1210 West Dayton Street; Madison, WI 53706; (608) 262-6629;poosala@cs.wisc.edu; Research Information;Reseach Summary.;Resume in; html and; Postscript.; Information Related to Databases; Advisor:;Prof. Yannis Ioannidis.;Other Information; Asha : voluntary organization to;help improve basic education in India.; Other interests;UW CS Home page;"
"SEQ Home Page;The SEQ Project: Querying Sequence Data;(Document under construction);Time to put Order in the Database!;Order Time put in the Database!;Time to put the Database in Order!;Document Contents:;Project Objectives;Current Status;Motivating Example;SEQ Data Model; Sequin Query Language;Optimization Techniques;SEQ System Development;Publications;Related Work;Contact Information;Project Objectives; A number of important database applications require the processing;of large amounts of ordered sequence data. The domains of these;applications include financial management, historical analysis,;economic and social sciences, metereology, medical sciences and;biological sciences. Existing relational databases are inadequate in;this regard; data collections are treated as sets, not sequences.;Consequently, expressing sequence queries is tedious, and evaluating;them is inefficient.;Databases should;model the data using the abstraction of sequences ,;allow data sequences to be queried in a declarative manner ,;utilizing the ordered semantics;take advantage of the unique opportunities available for query;optimization and evaluation;integrate sequence data with relational data, so that users can;store and query a combination of relation and sequences;These requirements serve as the goals of the SEQ project.;Various kinds of sequences need to be supported, temporal sequences being the;most important kind. Queries should be expressible using notions like;""next"" and ""previous"" which are natural when considering sequences.;These queries should be optimized so that they can be evaluated efficiently.;These issues need to be studied in theory, and then a database system needs;to be built that demonstrates the feasibility of the theoretical ideas.;Project Status;The current status of the project is:;We have defined the SEQ data model that can support;most important kinds of sequence data. We have also defined algebraic;query operators that can be composed to form sequence queries (analogous;to the composition of relational algebra operators to form relation queries).;We have described how sequence queries can be efficiently processed,;and have identified various optimization techniques.;We use a sequence query language Sequin that can;declaratively express queries over sequences. A Sequin;query can include embedded expressions in a relational query language like;SQL, or vice-versa.;We are building a disk-based database system to demonstrate the;feasibility of our proposals. The system implements the SEQ;model using a nested complex object architecture. It is built over the;SHORE storage manager and can process several megabytes of data.;Relations and sequences are supported in an integrated and extensible;manner.;Motivating Example of a Sequence Query;A weather monitoring system records information about various meteorological;phenomena. There is a sequentiality in the occurrence of these phenomena; the;various meteorological events are sequenced by the time at which they are;recorded. A scientist asks the query:; ""For which volcano eruptions did;the most recent earthquake have a strength greater than 7.0 on the Richter;scale?"".;If this query is to be expressed in a relational query language like SQL,;complex features like groupby clauses, correlated subqueries and aggregate;functions are required. Further, a conventional relational query optimizer;would not find an efficient query execution plan, even given the knowledge;that the Earthquakes and Volcano relations are sorted by time.;However a very efficient plan exists, if one models the data as sequences;ordered by time. The two sequences can be scanned in lock step;(similar to a sort merge join). The most recent earthquake record scanned;can be stored in a temporary buffer. Whenever a volcano record is;processed, the value of the most recent earthquake record stored in the;buffer is checked to see if its strength was greater than 7.0, possibly;generating an answer. This query can therefore be processed with a single;scan of the two sequences, and using very little memory. The key to such;optimization is the sequentiality of the data and the query.;Data Model;The details of the SEQ data model are;described in a published paper (click here;for postscript version). Here we present the gist of it.;The basic model of a sequence is a set of records mapped to an ordered;domain of ``positions''.;This many-to-many relationship between records and;positions can be viewed in two dual but distinct ways: as a set of records;mapped to each position, or as a set of positions mapped to each record.;These two views are called ``Positional'' and ``Record-Oriented'' respectively,;and each gives rise to a set of query operators based on that view.;Queries on sequences could require operators of either or both flavors.;The Record-Oriented operators are similar to relational;operators and include various kinds of joins (overlap, containment, etc) and;aggregates. Such operators have been extensively explored by researchers;in the temporal database community.;The Positional operators include Next, Previous, Offset, Moving;Aggregates, etc. Further operators allow ``zooming'' operations on;sequences by means of collapsing and expanding the ordering domains;associated with the sequence. For instance, a daily sequence could be;``zoomed out'' (i.e.collapsed) to a weekly sequence, or ``zoomed in'';(i.e. expanded) to an hourly sequence.;The last part of the model deals with operations on groups (i.e. sets) of;sequences. The advantage is that this makes it easy to model queries;involving sequence collections (which is the case in many real-world;situations). All the sequence operators are extended to work with groups;of similar sequences, instead of with single sequences. This extension;of the SEQ model indicates that a practical implementation of;SEQ would probably involve a nested complex object system.; Sequin Query Language;We have devised a query language called Sequin using;which declarative sequence queries can be specified. The language;is similar in flavor to SQL, except that the inputs to queries;as well as the results of queries are sequences. Click; here for a description of the Sequin;language with examples.;Optimization Techniques;We have proposed new optimization techniques for sequence queries;involving Positional operators. There are existing techniques that;have been proposed for queries with Record-Oriented operators.;Our optimizations use query transformations, meta--data, and caching of;intermediate results to efficiently evaluate a query. An optimal query;evaluation plan can be generated using an algorithm that relies on cost;estimates. One of the important observations is that accessing sequence data;in a single stream is probably very efficient, and evaluation strategies;should take this into account.;The details of the optimization techniques are;described in a published paper (click here;for postscript version).;System Development;The SEQ database system has a client-server;architecture, supporting multiple clients via;a multi-threaded server. The server is built on;top of the SHORE;storage manager. Both Sequin;and a subset of SQL are supported as query languages;which can be embedded inside each other. The data model;is a nested complex object model that allows arbitrary;levels of nesting of relations inside sequences and vice;versa. The system is also extensible, providing support;for new data types, new ordering domains, user-defined functions,;new storage implementations and new query languages. For more details;on the SEQ system, click here.;Publications;Sequence Query Processing;Praveen Seshadri, Miron Livny and Raghu Ramakrishnan.;Proceedings of the ACM SIGMOD Conference on Data Management, May 1994.;SEQ: A Framework for Sequence Data;Praveen Seshadri, Miron Livny and Raghu Ramakrishnan.;Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Data Engineering, March 1995.;The Design and Implementation of a Sequence Database System;Praveen Seshadri, Miron Livny and Raghu Ramakrishnan.;Submitted to VLDB 96.;What's Next? Sequence Queries;Raghu Ramakrishnan, Michael Cheng, Miron Livny, and Praveen Seshadri.;In Proceedings of the International Conference on the Management of Data (COMAD),;December, 1994.;Related Work;The;DEVise;project is complementary to SEQ. It provides a visualization;environment that can be used to explore sequence data. DEVise can act as;a front-end through which queries can be posed against a SEQ database server,;and the answers can be examined graphically.;Also see:; SHORE Project: Storage Manager used for SEQ; People working on SEQ and related projects; UW-Madison, Database Research Group; UW-Madison, CS Department Server;Contact Information;For more information, contact;Praveen Seshadri,;praveen@cs.wisc.edu;Raghu Ramakrishnan,;raghu@cs.wisc.edu;Miron Livny,;miron@cs.wisc.edu;Computer Sciences Department,;University of Wisconsin,;1210, W.Dayton Street,;Madison, WI 53706.;Last modified: Fri Sep 15 1995 by Praveen Seshadri;Praveen Seshadri / praveen@cs.wisc.edu;"
"CS302, fall session info;CS302 Fall Session;Algebraic Language Programming in C++;Instructor: Andrew Prock;Email: prock@cs.wisc.edu;Office: Computer Science and Statistics 1331;Office Phone: (608)262-6605;Office Hours: 11am - 12pm M 12pm - 1pm W 8pm - 10pm Th;Grader: Haihong Wang;Email: whh@cs.wisc.edu;Office: Computer Science and Statistics 1347;Office Phone: (608)262-5786;Consulting Hours (in 1350): 7:00-10:00 pm MTWR;Announcements;11/7 I have put a grades link below, please check; your grade and verify your scores.; 11/6 I have modified crazy.txt yet again.; 11/5 I will be having office hours today from; 12 - 2pm today; 10/29 I have made a minor modification to; the crazy.txt file for assignment 7, you should get; a new copy if you have already gotton one.; 10/15 Assignment five is online.; 10/10 Exam results: avg ~76 range 43-100; 10/8: I have added the grading policy to the; end of assignment #4.; 9/26: I have put some sample quizes and tests; online; for your general perusal. These tests and quizes are from; another TA, but I think they should give you a good idea of; the level of knowledge you will need. Remember that the; topics on our tests may not be the same as the tests online.; 9/3 9pm: Webpages seem to be done. Email me if you notice; any errors or have any questions. Make sure to check out assingment; 0. Assignment 1 is online as well for those of you who like to; work ahead.; The final is on Tuesday, December 17, 1996. Mark your; calendar because everyone is required to take the final then.; You should check all the links to this page to get a feel; for where things are located. It is very important that; you carefully read the policies and administrative; information below.; Welcome to class.;Class Information:;Text:;;Problem Solving with C++, Walter Savitch.; Room: 1263 Computer Sciences & Statistics; Time: 5:00-6:15 (Section 30), 6:30-7:45 (Section 31); Tentative Syllabus;Section 30 grades;Section 31 grades;Grading Policy;Late Policy;E-mail Policy; Academic Misconduct;Course Materials; General Course Info; Style Guide; Lecture Notes; Assignments;; Email archive for section 30;; Email archive for section 31;Other Info;; Introduction to Microsoft Windows (Do this first);; Introduction to Borland C++ 4.5 (Do this second);; CS302 home page;; The Vectra Lab;; Source code from the text;; Who are consultants and what do they do?;; Extra C++ reference material;; CS302 FAQ (many of your questions will be answered here);prock@cs.wisc.edu;"
"Andrew Prock's Home Page;Andrew Clemens Hockert Prock;Office: 1331; Tel: 262-6605; Hours: 9:45-10:45 T, 10:00-11:00 F; My Personal History; My School; My Classes At UW Madison; The Class I TA for; My Old School; My Bookmarks; My Resume; Doonesbury; Fox Trot; NOT Alta Vista; Alta Vista; prock@cs.wisc.edu;"
"Home Page of Anne Condon;; Anne Condon; Associate Professor; Computer Sciences Department; University of Wisconsin; 1210 W. Dayton St.; Madison, WI 53706-1685; telephone: (608) 262-1204; fax: (608) 262-9777; email:; condon@cs.wisc.edu;Ph.D., University of Washington, 1987;Interests:;Complexity theory, interactive proof systems, randomized complexity;classes, theory of parallel computation; Research Summary;I am interested in models of computation, such as interactive;proof systems, which combine nondeterminism and randomness. Such;models have recently proven surprisingly useful in solving classic;problems in complexity theory. For example, although the theory;of NP-completeness has long been used to identify hard computational;problems, there has not been much progress in understanding which;hard problems have solutions that are easy to approximate. Recent;results on interactive proof systems have resulted in novel models;of NP, which in turn can be used to prove non-approximability;results for several NP-hard problems. In our work we are developing;both positive and negative results on the approximability of hard;combinatorial problems which arise in game theory, graph theory;and automata theory.;I am also interested in design and analysis of parallel algorithms.;I am currently working on development of parallel algorithms for;sorting and for graph problems, such as minimum spanning tree.;The goal is to develop algorithms that work well on `practical';parallel models, where communication and synchronization costs;can be expensive.; Sample Recent Publications;Interactive proof systems with polynomially bounded strategies;(with R. Ladner), Journal of Computer and System Sciences,;vol. 50, no. 3, 1995.;;Finite state automata with nondeterministic and probabilistic;states (with L. Hellerstein, S. Pottle, and A. Wigderson), Proceedings;of the 26th Annual ACM Symposium on the Theory of Computing,;May 1994.;;PSPACE is provable by two provers in one round (with J.-Y. Cai;and R. Lipton), Journal of Computer and System Sciences,;vol. 48, no. 1, February 1994.; This page was automatically created October 3, 1995.; Email pubs@cs.wisc.edu;to report errors.;"
"Home Page of Miron Livny;; Miron Livny; Professor; Computer Sciences Department; University of Wisconsin; 1210 W. Dayton St.; Madison, WI 53706-1685; telephone: (608) 262-1204; fax: (608) 262-9777; email:; miron@cs.wisc.edu;Ph.D., Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot, Israel, 1984;Interests:;Resource management algorithms, performance modeling and analysis,;discrete event simulation; Research Summary;The major emphasis of my research is on the design and evaluation;of resource management policies. I have been involved in the development;of new resource management policies for processing and data management;systems. For both types of systems, general-purpose as well as;real-time scheduling algorithms have been considered. My research;involves performance studies of the different policies, with special;emphasis on the interplay between the properties of the system;and the performance of the policy. Since most of my performance;studies employ simulation, I am interested in discrete event modeling;and simulation techniques. I am currently in the process of implementing;a simulation laboratory that is based on a novel simulation language.;The laboratory includes data management utilities, visualization;tools, and graphical interfaces.; Sample Recent Publications;Disk-tape joins: Synchronizing disk and tape access (with J. Myllymaki),;Proceedings of the ACM SIGMETRICS Conference, 1995.;;Sequence query processing (with P. Sashadri and R. Ramakrishnan),;Proceedings of the ACM SIGMOD Conference, 1994.;;Foundations of visual metaphors for schema display (with E. Haber;and Y. Ioannidis), Journal of Intelligent Information Systems,;vol. 3, no. 3/4, July 1994.; This page was automatically created October 30, 1995.; Email pubs@cs.wisc.edu;to report errors.;"
"Home Page of Mary K. Vernon;; Mary K. Vernon; Professor of Computer Sciences and Industrial Engineering; Computer Sciences Department; University of Wisconsin; 1210 W. Dayton St.; Madison, WI 53706-1685; telephone: (608) 262-1204; fax: (608) 262-9777; email:; vernon@cs.wisc.edu;Ph.D., University of California, Los Angeles, 1983;Interests:;Techniques and applications of computer systems performance analysis,;performance of parallel systems, parallel architectures and operating;systems.; Research Summary;I am interested in analytic modeling techniques and their application;to computer system performance issues, with an emphasis on parallel;and distributed system design issues. The modeling techniques;I have developed together with graduate students and colleagues;include the Generalized Timed Petri Net, and customized;mean value analysis. The GTPN can represent parallel system;features such as synchronization and priority service precisely.;The customized MVA technique yields a set of intuitive equations;that represent parallel system features more approximately but;can be solved more efficiently. We have also recently proposed;the use of a technique called interpolation approximations;for analysis of parallel processor allocation policies. This technique;may also have broader applicability for parallel systems performance;analysis.;Current research projects include characterization for high-performance;parallel workloads, analysis of parallel processor scheduling;policies, scheduling issues in multimedia servers, and memory;management policies for networks of workstations.; Sample Recent Publications;The fairness of DQDB networks with slot reuse (with G. Brewster),;Proceedings of the IEEE INFOCOM Conference, August 1995.;;Accurate modeling of the hybrid hash join algorithm (with J. Patel;and M. Carey), Proceedings of the ACM SIGMETRICS Conference,;June 1994.;;Use of application characteristics and limited preemption for;run-to-completion parallel processor scheduling policies (with;S. Chiang and R. Mansharamani), Proceedings of the ACM SIGMETRICS;Conference, June 1994.; This page was automatically created October 30, 1995.; Email pubs@cs.wisc.edu;to report errors.;"
"Raghu Ramakrishnan's Home Page;;Raghu Ramakrishnan;Associate Professor of Computer Science;(raghu@cs.wisc.edu);Department of Computer Sciences;University of Wisconsin - Madison;1210 West Dayton Street,;Madison, WI 53706 USA;Phone: 608-262-9759 (Department: 262-1204, Fax: 262-9777); Education; Teaching Activities; Research Interests; Research Projects; Ph.D. Graduates; Education:; Ph.D. University of Texas at Austin, 1987.; B.Tech., Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, 1983.; Teaching Activities:; Course text:;Database Management Systems; Software for educational use:;Minibase;and; Coral;The text Database Management Systems, published by McGraw-Hill, is aimed;at first and second courses in database systems at the undergraduate;and graduate levels. The Minibase relational DBMS was developed in;conjunction with this text. The Coral system is also used in courses;that deal with logic databases at several schools.; Research Interests:; Integrating heterogeneous data sources; Content-based querying and indexing of sequence and image data; Exploratory analysis of large data sets (data mining); Extending database query languages using constraints and deduction;As the use of databases grows and diversifies, it is increasingly;important to be able to access data from dispersed, heterogeneous,;independently developed sources easily. In the RODIN project,;and its successor, the C.O.D. project, I am investigating several;issues: formal techniques and practical toolkits for;semantic integration, supporting multiple levels of service;and access to a database, and database access in a networked;cluster of machines. This is joint work with Profs. Ioannidis and Livny.;In recent work, the results on visual data exploration;from the; NEXT!;project, which is joint work with Prof. Livny,;are being applied to data integration, and querying over the Web.;My second area of interest is content-based querying of complex data such as;sequences and image sets. The; SEQ;system deals with;queries over sequence data, and focuses on DBMS design and optimization;issues related to sequence data. It is a part of the; NEXT!;project, and is joint work with Prof. Livny.;An important aspect of this work is its use for identifying;trends in the data, or in general, identifying useful patterns of;information.;In the PIQ project, the goal is to support content-based retrieval from;large sets of images. Our focus is on developing and implementing;an expressive data definition language that can be used to customize;a general image database system to take advantage of specialized;information about a given collection of images that is to be indexed;and queried.;My interest in querying and analysis of data covers data exploration and;mining. We have developed a powerful clustering algorithm called; BIRCH;for large datasets and a visual data exploration tool called; DEVise;as part of the; NEXT!;project.;A long-standing research interest is the extension of relational database;query languages with logic programming features;such as structured terms and recursion, and the use of;arithmetic constraints to specify data and queries more;compactly and efficiently.;An ongoing project involves the continued development and use of the CORAL;deductive system. The evaluation is based upon bottom-up fixpoint;evaluation techniques,;and several optimizations are applied to make it efficient;across a broad range of programs.; Research Projects:; CORAL; C.O.D.; NEXT!; PIQ; Ph.D. Graduates;S. Sudarshan,;Ph.D. August 1992,;Run-Time Optimizations in Bottom-Up Evaluation of Logic Programs,;First employment: AT&T Bell Labs, Murray Hill (sudarsha@research.att.com).;D. Srivastava,;Ph.D. August 1993,;Deductive and Object-Oriented Languages,;First employment: AT&T Bell Labs, Murray Hill (divesh@research.att.com).;S. Dar,;Ph.D. August 1993,;Design and Evaluation of Transitive Closure Algorithms,;First employment: AT&T Bell Labs, Murray Hill (dar@research.att.com).;P. Seshadri,;Ph.D. August 1996,;Sequence Data Management;First employment: Computer Sciences Department, Cornell University (praveen@cs.cornell.edu).;"
"Rahul's Home Page;Rahul Kapoor;Hello Internet surfer ! Welcome to my cyber home. I hope you stay here long;enough to get to know me a little.;Officially I am in my third and final semester as a master's student in the;Computer Sciences Department at the University of Wisconsin, Madison.;I came here in fall '95 after getting my bachelor's degree from the Indian;Institute of Technology, Kanpur. Interested employers please check out my; resume !;Courses &Schedule;MyDepartment;MyUniversity;IITKanpur;IITKClass of 1995;India relatedlinks;Me;Now that you have gone through the official ""who I am"" you may want to;see the personal ""who I am"". Well, I am a normal kind of guy, born and;raised in a small loving family(comprising of my parents and an elder sister);in a not so nice town in India called Kanpur. I came to the states in fall '95;and have had the good fortune (ha !) of living in Madison, which Money;magazine rated as the most livable city in US this year (the editor;must have come from Greenland to think that the winter here is livable!);I guess I shouldn't complain because during fall and spring Madison is;awesome. During summer I was in San Jose, California working at the;IBM Almaden research centre;so I cannot say much about Madison summers but they are supposed to be great.;Anyway I don't regret not being here because I had a great time;in the bay area and whatever Money magazine says I think northern California is the place to be !;And now a little about my likes. I love Music(take a look at my; cd collection;to know what kind), Movies (almost all genres though I prefer romance and;comedy), TV (most of the comedy shows, X-Files and Star Trek),;Reading (any new stuff from novels to philosophy), Computers and Web-Surfing !;As far as sports are concerned, I love watching;cricket;(when India is playing and winning), tennis, figure skating and gymnastics.;This semester I am trying to learn swimming(finally !) and bridge.;I am a nature lover too and enjoy going on long walks and hikes(when;its cloudy and slightly breezy).;I wish I could get one of those jobs on television travel shows where you;get to see all the interesting places in the world and get paid for it!;MusicStuff;Movies &Television;InternetTravel;OtherBookmarks;To Contact Me;GuestBook;rahul@cs.wisc.edu;H: (608)264-4143O: (608)262-9275;"
"Raji's Home Page;Raji's Home...;;Welcome to my home page. If you have visited this page too often, you;might be suffering from Internet;Addiction Disorder. Seek treatment!!;Office Info; Office : 1308; Phone : (608) 262-6602; Computer Sciences Dept; University of Wisconsin,; Madison;Teaching Assistant :;CS577 - Introduction to Algorithms;Office Hours: 11-12noon MW;Here is a Postscript or;Text version of my resume.;Courses for Fall '96; CS640 : Introduction;to Computer Networks; CS737 :;Computer System Performance Evaluation and Modeling; CS739 : Distributed;Systems; Other Interesting Links; Technical Stuff; Fun Stuff; News; Send me mail; See if I am around;"
"Rajesh Raman's Home Page;;Ye Olde Homme Page Offe Rajesh Raman; Rajesh Raman; Computer Sciences Department; 1210 West Dayton Street; Madison, WI 53706-1685; Email: raman@cs.wisc.edu; Telephone: (608) 262-5386; B.A.,Ohio Wesleyan University, '95; Majors: Computer Science, Mathematics; Minor: Music; Current first year graduate student,; Ph.D., University of Winsonsin-Madison;;Department of Computer Science; Personal:; My Curriculum Vitae (Postscript); Specifications;Current Courses:; CS 552:;Computer Architecture; Saluja; CS 737:;System Performance Evaluation and Modeling; Livny; CS 739:;Distributed Systems; Cao;Information on:; Current work:; Other:; Team member, Condor; project.; Integral part of The Committee;My bookmarks;What a chimera, then, is man! What a novelty, what a monster, what a chaos,;what a subject of contradiction, what a prodigy! A judge of all things, feeble;worm of the earth, depositary of the truth, cloaca of uncertainty and error, the;glory and the shame of the universe!; --Blaise Pascal (1623-1662);Last Modified by Rajesh Raman, Wed Oct 16 19:07:24 CDT 1996;raman@cs.wisc.edu;"
"Karthik's Web Page;Karthikeyan Ramasamy;About;I am a Ph.D student at the Computer Sciences Department of University of Wisconsin. My research;interests are mostly in Database and Operating Systems. I work with Jeffrey Naughton in the Paradise;project.;Projects;Hacking for David Dewitt and Jeffrey Naughton;Web DB Connectivity;Paradise Parallel Database;Wisconsin PTHREAD Wrappers;Publications;Storage Estimation for Multidimensional Aggregates in the Presence of Hierarchies;Amit Shukla, Prasad M Deshpande, Jeffrey F Naughton and Karthikeyan Ramasamy;22nd International Conference on Very Large Databases, Mumbai(Bombay), 1996.;Available here. (255 KB);Presentations;Web - The Big Picture;Architecture Alternatives for Scalable Web Servers;Photo Album;Encounter with the Leaf;Personal Info;Resume;Finance;MONEY;Wall Street Journal;Personal Interests;Hacking;Photography;Contact Information;Street address;1210 W Dayton, Computer Sciences Department, Madison, WI 53706;Electronic mail address;karthik@cs.wisc.edu;Office phone;608-262-6625;FAX number;608-262-5777;Comments and Suggestions;Please tell me what you think about my home page and how I might improve it.;"
"Kelly's CS 132 Page; CS 132; Kelly Ratliff;Current grades; You can do a keyword search of my 132 mail messages. For example, enter ""functions"" below (without the quotes) to get every paragraph that used the word ""functions."" You can also use * for a wildcard.;Here are links to the mail messages I have sent this semester:;CS 132 info -- 9/11/96;CS 132 info -- 9/15/96;CS 132 info -- 9/22/96;CS 132 info -- 10/29/96;CS 132 info -- 10/6/96;CS 132 info -- 10/9/96;CS 132 info -- 10/16/96;CS 132 info -- 10/27/96;CS 132 info -- 11/3/96; Additional information of interest:;Backups: copying disks and files;Virus Information; World Wide Web FAQ;Fun stuff:; Usenet Oracle Resource Index; Virtual Tourist World Map;The Space Shuttle Clickable Map; Badger Herald web site; Comics;Humor:;Abort, retry, ignore?;Nine Types of Users;Finals Week;Lab jokes;Getting software from the net:;If you have a computer at home, you might be interested in trying;some of the shareware and freeware software available from Internet;archives. These programs are usually compressed, and you may need some;compression or archiving software to ""unpack"" them. You may need to review;some DOS commands before trying this. One of the biggest;and best maintained archives is Simtel, so I'm;including some links to Simtel FAQ files posted on Usenet:;What is SimTel?;FTP site info;Compression Info;Favorite FTP sites; Click;here to visit the CS 132 - Desautels web page.;"
Kelly's Home Page;; Kelly Ratliff;Office: CS 3360;Phone: 262-9275;Email: kelly@cs.wisc.edu;Last login;Office hours: MW 3:30-4:30;Information for my;CS 132 students;My genealogy page;Interesting places to visit...;;This space under construction. Stay tuned.;
"Monasterius de Ominous Doominus;;; Welcome to the Monasterius de Ominous Doominus;;Brother Richard (without the beard):;; Personal Haven Address; after 9/2 see Office Haven Address; Office Haven Address;; University of Wisconsin at Madison; Computer Sciences Department; 1210 West Dayton Street; Madison, WI 53706; 608-262-6602; Office Number 1308; rcarl@cs.wisc.edu;; 412 office hours: Wed 2:30-3:30 Thur 3:30-4:30; cs412 home page; Current Course Load;; cs739 Distributed Operating Systems; Monday/Wednesday 1:00 - 2:15; ---;; fp880 Underwater Fire Prevention; Saturday 12:00 - 1:00 am; ---;; cs757 Advanced Computer Architecture II; Tuesday/Thursday 9:30 - 10:45; ---;; math 990 Introduction to Whole Numbers (with emphasis on the number 1); Sunday 8:00 - 9:00 pm; ---;; eng 990 Subsurface Depository Engineering (grave digging); Monday/Wednesday/Friday 12:00 - 1:00 am;;;The Many Shades of Brother Richard; Professional; ---;; Ominously Doomed; ---;; Political; ---;; Goofy; ---;; Solitary; ---;; Innebriated; ---;; Vampiric; ---;; Serious; ---;; Nostalgic; ---;; DJ Funky Monk; ---;; Fellows of the Order; ---;;If you ever need a graphic artist/desktop publisher, check out the;best->;;;;"
"Thomas W. Reps's Home Page; Thomas W. Reps;Professor;Computer Sciences Department;University of Wisconsin-Madison;1210 West Dayton Street;Madison, WI 53706-1685;USA;E-mail: reps@cs.wisc.edu;Telephone: (608) 262-2091;Secretary: (608) 262-0017;Department: (608) 262-1204;Fax: (608) 262-9777;Ph.D., Cornell University, 1982;(Curriculum Vitae);Research Interests:; Program slicing, differencing, and merging; Interprocedural dataflow analysis; Alias analysis, pointer analysis, and shape analysis; Language-based program-development environments; Incremental computing; Attribute grammars;(See also the;home page of the Wisconsin Program Slicing Project;.);Contents; Research Summary; Categorized Index to Publications; List of Publications; Visitors, Post-Doctoral Associates, and Students;Research Summary;My research is aimed at creating tools to support the;development of complex software systems. The objective is to create;tools that provide powerful language-specific program-manipulation;operations. In particular, my work has explored how program slicing;can serve as the basis for such program-manipulation operations.;The slice of a program with respect to a set of program elements;S is;a projection of the program that includes only program elements that;might affect (either directly or transitively) the values of the;variables used at members of S. Slicing allows one to find;semantically meaningful decompositions of programs, where the;decompositions consist of elements that are not textually contiguous.;Program slicing is a fundamental operation that can aid in solving;many software-engineering problems. For instance, it has applications;in program understanding, maintenance, debugging, testing,;differencing, specialization, reuse, and merging.;The projects that my co-workers and I are carrying out are aimed at;improving the underlying technology for program slicing (and related;operations),;implementing program slicers,;developing methods for using slicing in software-engineering tools, and;building slicing-based program-manipulation tools.;(Click;here;for the home page of the Wisconsin Program Slicing Project.);Recently, we established some unexpected connections between;interprocedural dataflow analysis and our previous work on;interprocedural program slicing.;In particular, we showed that a large class of interprocedural;dataflow-analysis problems can be solved by transforming;them into a special kind of graph-reachability problem.;This graph-reachability problem can be solved precisely in polynomial time;by the algorithm originally developed for interprocedural slicing.;I am also interested in the subject of incremental algorithms.;By an incremental algorithm,;I mean an algorithm that makes use of the solution to one problem;instance to find the solution to a ``nearby'' problem instance.;Categorized Index to Publications;Program Slicing, Differencing, Merging, etc.;Overview;[icse92];Slicing;[dagstuhl96];[fse94];[slicing_patent];David Binkley's Thesis;[acta91];[toplas90] (also [pldi88]);Chopping;[fse95b];Differencing;[differencing91];Wuu Yang's Thesis;Merging;[tosem95];[tosem92] (also [sigsoft90]);David Binkley's Thesis;Wuu Yang's Thesis;[iwscm89];[toplas89] (also [popl88a], [esop88], and [iwsvcc88]);Algebra of slices (and applications to program merging);[scp91] (also [esop90]);[ccpsd91];[amast91];[npfo_submission];Semantics and slicing;[tr900];[ccipl89];[tr890];[popl88b];Other applications of slicing;[dagstuhl96];[pepm95a];Implemented slicing system;[prog_integration_system];[prog_integration_manual];[tr819];Note: the system described in these papers handles a small subset;of Pascal.;The system is distributed under license, which you may obtain by clicking;here.;We are currently retargeting the implementation to handle C programs, and;expect to distribute a system that supports slicing, chopping, and;differencing (but probably not integration) of C programs in 1996.;Miscellaneous;[tr947];Ph.D. Theses;David Binkley's Thesis;Wuu Yang's Thesis;Phil Pfeiffer's Thesis;Interprocedural Dataflow Analysis;Demand IDFA via bottom-up logic programming and the magic-sets transformation;[ald94] (also [cc94]);Exhaustive and Demand IDFA via graph reachability;[tr1283] (also [fse95a]);[popl95];[diku94];IDFA using more than graph reachability;[tcs_ide_paper] (also [fase95]);PTIME completeness of IDFA;[acta_paper];Alias Analysis, Pointer Analysis, and Shape Analysis;[rsw96];[dagstuhl96];[tr1323] (also [popl96] and [tr1276]);[pepm95b];[pfeiffer_thesis];[sigplan89];Language-Based Program-Development Environments; [fse96]; [dagstuhl92]; Synthesizer Generator Book; Synthesizer Generator Manual; [computer87] (also [lape92]); [popl86]; T. Reps's Thesis; [psde84]; [toplas83] (also [popl82] and [popl81]); [compcon83]; [cacm81] (also [ipe84]); [stm81] (also [sde81]);Incremental Computing; G. Ramalingam's Thesis; [jalg_paper]; [tcs96]; [ipl94]; [dagstuhl94]; [popl94]; [popl93]; [popl93_notes]; Synthesizer Generator Book; [acta88]; [computer87] (also [lape92]); [popl86]; T. Reps's Thesis; [toplas83] (also [popl82] and [popl81]);Attribute Grammars; [spaa93]; Synthesizer Generator Book; Synthesizer Generator Manual; [acta88]; [toplas87]; [popl86]; T. Reps's Thesis; [psde84]; [popl84]; [toplas83] (also [popl82] and [popl81]); [compcon83];List of Publications;Books;Reps, T. and Teitelbaum, T.,;The Synthesizer Generator: A System for Constructing;Language-Based Editors.;Springer-Verlag, New York, NY, 1988.;Reps, T. and Teitelbaum, T.,;The Synthesizer Generator Reference Manual: Third Edition.;Springer-Verlag, New York, NY, 1988.;Chinese reprint published by the World Publishing Corporation,;Beijing, China, 1991.;Reps, T.,;Generating Language-Based Environments.;The M.I.T. Press, Cambridge, MA, 1984.;Journal Publications;Sagiv, M., Reps, T., and Horwitz, S.,;Precise interprocedural dataflow analysis with applications to;constant propagation.;To appear in Theoretical Computer Science.; tcs-ide.ps;Reps, T.,;On the sequential nature of interprocedural program-analysis problems.;To appear in Acta Informatica.; acta95.ps;Ramalingam, G. and Reps, T.,;An incremental algorithm for a generalization of the shortest-path problem.;To appear in Journal of Algorithms.; j_alg95.ps;Ramalingam, G. and Reps, T.,;On the computational complexity of dynamic graph problems.;In Theoretical Computer Science A 158 (May 1996), 233-277.; tcs96.ps;Binkley, D., Horwitz, S., and Reps, T.,;Program integration for languages with procedure calls.;ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology 4, 1;(January 1995), pp. 3-35.; tosem95.ps;Ramalingam, G. and Reps, T.,;On competitive on-line algorithms for the dynamic priority-ordering problem.;Information Processing Letters 51 (1994), 155-161.; ipl94.ps;Yang, W., Horwitz, S., and Reps, T.,;A program integration algorithm that accommodates semantics-preserving;transformations.;ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology 1, 3;(July 1992), 310-354.;Reps, T.,;Algebraic properties of program integration.;Science of Computer Programming 17 (1991), 139-215.; scp91.ps;Horwitz, S. and Reps, T.,;Efficient comparison of program slices.;Acta Informatica 28 (1991), 713-732.;Horwitz, S., Reps, T., and Binkley, D.,;Interprocedural slicing using dependence graphs.;ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems 12, 1;(January 1990), 26-60.; toplas90.ps;Horwitz, S., Prins, J., and Reps, T.,;Integrating non-interfering versions of programs.;ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems 11, 3 (July 1989),;345-387.; toplas89.ps;Reps, T.;Incremental evaluation for attribute grammars;with unrestricted movement between tree modifications.;Acta Informatica 25 (1988), 155-178.;Reps, T. and Teitelbaum, T.,;Language processing in program editors.;IEEE Computer 20, 11 (November 1987), 29-40.;Reps, T. and Demers, A.,;Sublinear-space evaluation algorithms for attribute grammars.;ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems 9, 3 (July 1987),;408-440.;Reps, T., Teitelbaum, T., and Demers, A.,;Incremental context-dependent analysis for language-based editors.;ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems 5, 3 (July 1983),;449-477.;Teitelbaum, T. and Reps, T.,;The Cornell Program Synthesizer: A syntax-directed programming environment.;Communications of the ACM 24, 9 (September 1981), 563-573.;Invited Papers;Horwitz, S. and Reps, T.,;The use of program dependence graphs in software engineering.;In Proceedings of the Fourteenth International Conference;on Software Engineering, (May 11-15, 1992, Melbourne, Australia),;ACM, New York, NY, 1992, pp. 392-411.; icse92.ps;Reps, T. and Horwitz, S.,;Semantics-based program integration.;In Proceedings of the Second European Symposium on Programming,;(Nancy, France, March 21-25, 1988), Lecture Notes in Computer Science,;Vol. 300, H. Ganzinger (ed.), Springer-Verlag, New York, NY, 1988, pp. 1-20.;Book Chapters;Reps, T.,;Demand interprocedural program analysis using logic databases,;In Applications of Logic Databases,;R. Ramakrishnan (ed.), Kluwer Academic Publishers, Boston, MA, 1994,;pp. 163-196.; ald94.ps;Horwitz, S., Reps, T., and Binkley, D.,;Interprocedural slicing using dependence graphs.;In Software Change Impact Analysis,;S.A. Bohner and R.S. Arnold (eds.), IEEE Computer Society,;Los Alamitos, CA.;(To appear.);Reprinted from;ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems 12, 1;(January 1990), 26-60.; toplas90.ps;Horwitz, S., Reps, T., and Binkley, D.,;Interprocedural slicing using dependence graphs.;In Software Merging and Slicing,;V. Berzins (ed.), IEEE Computer Society, Los Alamitos, CA, pp. 10-44.;Reprinted from;ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems 12, 1;(January 1990), 26-60.; toplas90.ps;Horwitz, S., Prins, J., and Reps, T.,;Integrating non-interfering versions of programs.;In Software Merging and Slicing,;V. Berzins (ed.), IEEE Computer Society, Los Alamitos, CA, pp. 137-179.;Reprinted from;ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems 11, 3 (July 1989),;345-387.; toplas89.ps;Ramalingam, G. and Reps, T.,;A theory of program modifications.;In Software Merging and Slicing,;V. Berzins (ed.), IEEE Computer Society, Los Alamitos, CA, 90-105.;Reprinted from;Proceedings of the Colloquium on Combining Paradigms;for Software Development, (Brighton, UK, April 8-12, 1991),;Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 494,;S. Abramsky and T.S.E. Maibaum (eds.),;Springer-Verlag, New York, NY, 1991, pp. 137-152.;Reps, T. and Teitelbaum, T.,;Language processing in program editors.;In Language Architectures and Programming Environments,;T. Ichikawa and H. Tsubotani (eds.),;The World Scientific Publishing Company, Singapore, 1992, pp. 146-169.;Reprinted from IEEE Computer 20, 11 (November 1987), 29-40.;Teitelbaum, T. and Reps, T.,;The Cornell Program Synthesizer: A syntax-directed programming environment.;In Interactive Programming Environments,;D. Barstow, E. Sandewall, and H. Shrobe (eds.), McGraw-Hill, 1984, pp. 97-116.;Reprinted from Communications of the ACM 24, 9 (September 1981), 563-573.;Teitelbaum, T., Reps, T., and Horwitz, S.,;The why and wherefore of the Cornell Program Synthesizer.;In Software Development Environments, A.I. Wasserman (ed.),;IEEE Computer Society, Washington, DC, 1981, 64-72.;Reprinted from Proceedings of the ACM SIGPLAN/SIGOA Symposium;on Text Manipulation, (Portland, OR, June 8-10, 1981),;ACM SIGPLAN Notices 16, 6 (June 1981), pp. 8-16.;Conference Publications;Siff, M. and Reps, T.,;Program generalization for software reuse: From C to C++,;To appear in SIGSOFT 96: Proceedings of the Fourth ACM SIGSOFT;Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering,;(San Francisco, CA, October 16-18, 1996),;ACM SIGSOFT Software Engineering Notes, 1996.; fse96.ps;Reps, T. and Turnidge, T.,;Program specialization via program slicing,;In Proceedings of the Dagstuhl Seminar on Partial Evaluation,;(Schloss Dagstuhl, Wadern, Germany, Feb. 12-16, 1996),;Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 1110,;O. Danvy, R. Glueck, and P. Thiemann (eds.),;Springer-Verlag, New York, NY, 1996, pp. 409-429.; dagstuhl96.ps;Sagiv, M., Reps, T., and Wilhelm, R.,;Solving shape-analysis problems in languages with destructive updating.;In Conference Record of the Twenty-Third ACM Symposium;on Principles of Programming Languages,;(St. Petersburg, FL, Jan. 22-24, 1996), ACM, New York, NY, 1996, pp. 16-31.; popl96.ps;Horwitz, S., Reps, T., and Sagiv, M.,;Demand interprocedural dataflow analysis.;In SIGSOFT '95: Proceedings of the Third ACM SIGSOFT;Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering,;(Washington, DC, October 10-13, 1995),;ACM SIGSOFT Software Engineering Notes 20, 4 (1995), pp. 104-115.; fse95a.ps;Reps, T. and Rosay, G.,;Precise interprocedural chopping.;In SIGSOFT '95: Proceedings of the Third ACM SIGSOFT;Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering,;(Washington, DC, October 10-13, 1995),;ACM SIGSOFT Software Engineering Notes 20, 4 (1995), pp. 41-52.; fse95b.ps;Das, M., Reps, T., and Van Hentenryck, P.;Semantic foundations of binding-time analysis for imperative programs.;In PEPM '95: Proceedings of the ACM SIGPLAN Symposium on;Partial Evaluation and Semantics-Based Program Manipulation,;(La Jolla, California, June 21-23, 1995),;ACM, New York, NY, 1995, pp. 100-110.; pepm95a.ps;Reps, T.,;Shape analysis as a generalized path problem.;In PEPM '95: Proceedings of the ACM SIGPLAN Symposium on;Partial Evaluation and Semantics-Based Program Manipulation,;(La Jolla, California, June 21-23, 1995),;ACM, New York, NY, 1995, pp. 1-11.; pepm95b.ps;Sagiv, M., Reps, T., and Horwitz, S.,;Precise interprocedural dataflow analysis with applications to;constant propagation.;In Proceedings of FASE '95: Colloquium on Formal;Approaches in Software Engineering, (Aarhus, Denmark, May 22-26, 1995),;Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 915,;P.D. Mosses, M. Nielsen, and M.I. Schwartzbach (eds.), Springer-Verlag,;New York, NY, 1995, pp. 651-665.; tapsoft95.ps;Reps, T., Horwitz, S., and Sagiv, M.,;Precise interprocedural dataflow analysis via graph reachability.;In Conference Record of the Twenty-Second ACM Symposium;on Principles of Programming Languages,;(San Francisco, CA, Jan. 23-25, 1995), pp. 49-61.; popl95.ps;Reps, T., Horwitz, S., Sagiv, M., and Rosay, G.,;Speeding up slicing.;In SIGSOFT '94: Proceedings of the Second ACM SIGSOFT Symposium on;the Foundations of Software Engineering,;(New Orleans, LA, December 7-9, 1994),;ACM SIGSOFT Software Engineering Notes 19, 5 (December 1994), pp. 11-20.; fse94.ps;Reps, T.,;Solving demand versions of interprocedural analysis problems.;In Proceedings of the Fifth International Conference on Compiler;Construction, (Edinburgh, Scotland, April 7-9, 1994),;Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 786, P. Fritzson (ed.),;Springer-Verlag, New York, NY, 1994, pp. 389-403.; cc94.ps;Ramalingam, G. and Reps, T.,;An incremental algorithm for maintaining the dominator tree of a reducible;flowgraph.;In Conference Record of the Twenty-First ACM Symposium;on Principles of Programming Languages, (Portland, OR, Jan. 16-19, 1994),;pp. 287-296.; popl94.ps;Reps, T.,;Scan grammars: Parallel attribute evaluation via data-parallelism.;In Proceedings of the Fifth ACM Symposium on Parallel Algorithms and;Architectures, (Velen, Germany, June 30 - July 2, 1993).; spaa93.ps;Ramalingam, G. and Reps, T.,;Modification algebras.;In Proceedings of the Second International Conference on;Algebraic Methodology and Software Technology (AMAST),;(Iowa City, Iowa, May 22-24, 1991).;Ramalingam, G. and Reps, T.,;A theory of program modifications.;In Proceedings of the Colloquium on Combining Paradigms;for Software Development, (Brighton, UK, April 8-12, 1991),;Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 494,;S. Abramsky and T.S.E. Maibaum (eds.),;Springer-Verlag, New York, NY, 1991, pp. 137-152.;Yang, W., Horwitz, S., and Reps, T.,;A program integration algorithm that accommodates semantics-preserving transformations.;In SIGSOFT '90: Proceedings of the Fourth ACM SIGSOFT Symposium;on Software Development Environments, (Irvine, CA, December 3-5, 1990),;ACM Software Engineering Notes 15, 6 (December 1990), pp. 133-143.;Reps, T.,;Algebraic properties of program integration.;In Proceedings of the 3nd European Symposium on Programming;(Copenhagen, Denmark, May 15-18, 1990),;Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 432, N. Jones (ed.),;Springer-Verlag, New York, NY, 1990, pp. 326-340.;Reps, T. and Bricker, T.,;Illustrating interference in interfering versions of programs.;In Proceedings of the Second International Workshop on Software;Configuration Management, (Princeton, NJ, October 24-27, 1989),;ACM Software Engineering Notes 17, 7 (November 1989), pp. 46-55.;Horwitz, S., Pfeiffer, P., and Reps, T.,;Dependence analysis for pointer variables.;In Proceedings of the ACM SIGPLAN 89 Conference on Programming Language;Design and Implementation, (Portland, OR, June 21-23, 1989),;ACM SIGPLAN Notices 24, 7 (July 1989), pp. 28-40.;Reps, T. and Yang, W.,;The semantics of program slicing and program integration.;In Proceedings of the Colloquium on Current Issues;in Programming Languages, (Barcelona, Spain, March 13-17, 1989),;Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 352,;J. Diaz and F. Orejas (eds.), Springer-Verlag, New York, NY, 1989,;pp. 360-374.;Horwitz, S., Reps, T., and Binkley, D.,;Interprocedural slicing using dependence graphs.;In Proceedings of the ACM SIGPLAN 88 Conference on Programming;Language Design and Implementation, (Atlanta, GA, June 22-24, 1988),;ACM SIGPLAN Notices 23, 7 (July 1988), pp. 35-46.;Reps, T., Horwitz, S., and Prins, J.,;Support for integrating program variants in an environment for;programming in the large.;In Proceedings of the International Workshop on Software Version;and Configuration Control, (Grassau, W. Germany, Jan. 27-29, 1988),;Berichte des German Chapter of the ACM, Vol. 30, J.F.H. Winkler (ed.),;B.G. Teubner, Stuttgart, W. Germany, 1988, pp. 197-216.;Horwitz, S., Prins, J., and Reps, T.,;Integrating non-interfering versions of programs.;In Conference Record of the Fifteenth ACM Symposium on Principles of;Programming Languages, (San Diego, CA, January 13-15, 1988),;ACM, New York, NY, 1988, pp. 133-145.;Horwitz, S., Prins, J., and Reps, T.,;On the adequacy of program dependence graphs for representing programs.;In Conference Record of the Fifteenth ACM Symposium on Principles of;Programming Languages, (San Diego, CA, January 13-15, 1988),;ACM, New York, NY, 1988, pp. 146-157.; popl88b.ps;Reps, T., Marceau, C., and Teitelbaum, T.,;Remote attribute updating for language-based editors.;In Conference Record of the Thirteenth ACM Symposium on Principles of;Programming Languages, (St. Petersburg, FL, January 13-15, 1986),;ACM, New York, NY, 1986, pp. 1-13.;Reps, T. and Teitelbaum, T.,;The Synthesizer Generator.;In Proceedings of the ACM SIGSOFT/SIGPLAN Software Engineering;Symposium on Practical Software Development Environments,;(Pittsburgh, PA, April 23-25, 1984),;ACM SIGPLAN Notices 19, 5 (May 1984), pp. 42-48.;Reps, T. and Alpern, B.,;Interactive proof checking.;In Conference Record of the Eleventh ACM Symposium on;Principles of Programming Languages,;(Salt Lake City, Utah, January 15-18, 1984),;ACM, New York, NY, 1984, pp. 36-45.;Reps, T.,;Static-semantic analysis in language-based editors.;In Digest of Papers of the IEEE Spring CompCon 83,;(San Francisco, CA, March 1-3, 1983),;IEEE Computer Society, Washington, DC, 1983, pp. 411-414.;Reps, T.,;Optimal-time incremental semantic analysis for syntax-directed editors.;In Conference Record of the Ninth ACM Symposium on Principles;of Programming Languages, (Albuquerque, NM, January 25-27, 1982),;ACM, New York, NY, 1982, pp. 169-176.;Teitelbaum, T., Reps, T., and Horwitz, S.,;The why and wherefore of the Cornell Program Synthesizer.;In Proceedings of the ACM SIGPLAN/SIGOA Symposium on Text Manipulation,;(Portland, OR, June 8-10, 1981),;ACM SIGPLAN Notices 16, 6 (June 1981), pp. 8-16.;Demers, A., Reps, T., and Teitelbaum, T.,;Incremental evaluation for attribute grammars with application to;syntax-directed editors.;In Conference Record of the Eighth ACM Symposium on Principles;of Programming Languages, (Williamsburg, VA, January 26-28, 1981),;ACM, New York, NY, 1981, pp. 105-116.;Software;Reps, T., Bricker, T., Rosay, G., et al.,;The Wisconsin Program-Integration System.;Release 0.5, April 1990;;Release 1.0, April 1992.;Release 2.0, July 1993.;Licensed to 9 sites.;(Click here;for license information.);Patents;Reps, T., Horwitz, S., and Binkley, D.,;Interprocedural slicing of computer programs using dependence graphs.;U.S. Patent Number 5,161,216, November 3, 1992.;Pending Submissions;Reps, T., Sagiv, M., and Wilhelm, R.,;Solving shape-analysis problems in languages with destructive updating.;TR-1323, Computer Sciences Department,;University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, August 1996.; tr1323.ps;Submitted for journal publication.;Horwitz, S., Reps, T., and Sagiv, M.,;Demand interprocedural dataflow analysis.;TR-1283, Computer Sciences Department, University of Wisconsin,;Madison, WI, August 1995.;(Click here to access paper.;Click here;to access the latest version.);Submitted for journal publication.;Ramalingam, G. and Reps, T.,;New programs from old.;TR-1057,;Computer Sciences Department, University of Wisconsin-Madison, November 1991.;(Click here;to access the latest version.);Submitted for journal publication.;Other Publications and Reports;Reps, T., Sagiv, M., and Wilhelm, R.,;On shape abstractions and shape analyses.;Computer Sciences Department, University of Wisconsin,;Madison, WI, July 1996.;Reps, T., Sagiv, M., and Wilhelm, R.,;Solving shape-analysis problems in languages with destructive updating.;TR-1276, Computer Sciences Department,;University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, July 1995.; tr1276.ps;van Leeuwen, J., Mehlhorn, K., and Reps, T. (eds.),;Incremental computation and dynamic algorithms.;Dagstuhl Seminar Report 88,;International Conference and Research Center for Computer Science (IBFI),;Schloss Dagstuhl, Wadern, Germany, 1994.;Reps, T., Sagiv, M., and Horwitz S.,;Interprocedural dataflow analysis via graph reachability.;TR 94-14, Datalogisk Institut, University of Copenhagen,;Copenhagen, Denmark, April 1994.; diku-tr94-14.ps;Reps, T.,;The Wisconsin Program-Integration System Reference Manual: Release 2.0.;Computer Sciences Department, University of Wisconsin-Madison,;July 1993.;manual.2.0.ps;Ramalingam, G. and Reps, T.,;A categorized bibliography on incremental computation.;In Conference Record of the Twentieth ACM Symposium;on Principles of Programming Languages, (Charleston, SC, Jan. 11-13, 1993),;ACM, New York, NY, 1993, pp. 502-510.;(Tutorial paper.);Reps, T.,;Incremental computation.;Unpublished tutorial notes, 1993.;(Presented at the Twentieth ACM Symposium on Principles of Programming Languages, (Charleston, SC, Jan. 11-13, 1993).);Klint, P., Reps, T., and Snelting, G. (eds.),;Programming environments.;Dagstuhl Seminar Report 34,;International Conference and Research Center for Computer Science (IBFI),;Schloss Dagstuhl, Wadern, Germany, 1992.;Binkley, D., Horwitz, S., and Reps, T.,;Identifying semantic differences in programs with procedures (Extended;abstract).;Computer Sciences Department, University of Wisconsin-Madison,;September 1991.;Ball, T., Horwitz, S., and Reps, T.,;Correctness of an algorithm for reconstituting a program from a dependence graph.;TR-947, Computer Sciences Department, University of Wisconsin-Madison,;July 1990.;(Click here to access paper.);Ramalingam, G. and Reps, T.,;Semantics of program representation graphs.;TR-900, Computer Sciences Department, University of Wisconsin-Madison,;December 1989.;(Click here to access paper.);Binkley, D., Horwitz, S., and Reps, T.,;The multi-procedure equivalence theorem.;TR-890, Computer Sciences Department, University of Wisconsin-Madison,;November 1989.;(Click here to access paper.);Reps, T.;Demonstration of a prototype tool for program integration.;TR-819, Computer Sciences Department, University of Wisconsin-Madison,;January 1989.;(Click here to access paper.);Visitors, Post-Docs, and Students;Visitors; Mooly Sagiv,;IBM Israel Scientific Center, 1994-95.; Jiazhen Cai, NYU, 1990-91.; Robert Paige,;NYU, 1990-91.;Post-Doctoral Associates; Wuu Yang;(Ph.D., Univ. of Wisconsin), 1990-91.;(Currently Associate Professor, Department of Computer and Information Science,;National Chiao-Tung University, Taiwan.); Jan Prins;(Ph.D., Cornell Univ.), 1986-87.;(Currently Associate Professor, Department of Computer Science,;University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill.);Students;Ramalingam, G.,;Bounded Incremental Computation,;Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 1089,;Springer-Verlag, New York, NY, 1996.;Binkley, D.,;Multi-procedure program integration.;Ph.D. dissertation and Tech. Rep. TR-1038,;Computer Sciences Department, University of Wisconsin,;Madison, WI, August 1991.;(Click here to access paper.);Pfeiffer, P.,;Dependence-based representations for programs with reference variables.;Ph.D. dissertation and Tech. Rep. TR-1037,;Computer Sciences Department, University of Wisconsin,;Madison, WI, August 1991.;(Click here to access paper.);Yang, W.,;A new algorithm for semantics-based program;integration.;Ph.D. dissertation and Tech. Rep. TR-962, Computer Sciences Department,;University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, August 1990.;(Click here to access paper.);"
"Home Page for Russ Manning's CS110;CS 110: Introduction to Computer Programming (C++);Instructor: Russell Manning;Email: rmanning@cs.wisc.edu;Office: Room 1349, Computer Science;Office Hours: You can find me in the CS132 lab (basement, B240) at:; Saturday: 11:00 - 5:00 (except during home football games); Sunday: 11:00 - 5:00; (Come down and keep me company! You can work here too,; just like in the Vectra Lab, although CS132 students; have priority...); The grades for Lecture 13 are finally up...click here to see them.; Textbook:;Problem Solving with C++: The Object of Programming, by;Walter Savitch; Section Information:;1:20-2:05, Oct 28 - [end of semester], B1 1402 University (ROTC building); Computer Lab:;Room 1350, Computer Science and Statistics; Assignments:; Program 0 due Monday, November 4; Program 1 due Wednesday, November 13; Program 1; Program 2; Program 3; Program 4; Course Information:; Day 1 handout; Syllabus; Late Policy; Academic Misconduct; Important software:;Introduction to Microsoft Windows;Hints for Windows Compilers;The Windows operating system;Email;Mosaic;Netscape; C++ information:;Introduction to Borland C++;The C++ language;The Savitch Text;Old Quizzes; None yet!;"
"Saeed's Home Page;;;; Hi! I am Saeed Mirza. I did my B.Tech. from the Department of Computer Science and Engineering;at Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur .;Now I am a graduate student at Univ. Of Wisconsin Madison in Computer Science Department;;My home is in Lucknow, India.; I like to spend my time:;;Listning to Indian Film Songs;;Netsurfing;;Reading Comics (My Hero Calvin);;; We do not love people because they are beautiful but they seem beautiful to us because we love them.; Contact me; Home Office;;;7 N. Randall Av.,;Apartment #1,;Madison,;WI-53715;3310, Comp. Sc. Department,;Univ. Of Wisconsin Madison,;1210 W.Dayton Street,;Madison, WI-53706;; (608) 250-0227; (608) 262-1721;; OR;Contact me best via email; at;saeed@cs.wisc.edu; Some of my friends contact who are the right; of IIT;; Some pictures of Wismad; For suggestions send to me.;; Check out my guestbook;;;This page has been accessed;;times since Oct. 1 1996.;Last updated;; 1996 Saeed&copy All rights reserved;"
"CS132 Using Computers - Lectures 3 & 4;CS132 - Using Computers;Instructor Info:;Instructor:; Sally Peterson;Office:; 5381 Computer Science;Phone:; 263-7763;E-Mail:;sally@cs.wisc.edu or slpeters@facstaff.wisc.edu;Office Hours:;Tuesday 10:45-11:45, Thursday 11:00-12:00 or by appointment;Vital Class Info:;Time:;TR 8:00 to 9:15 (Lecture 3);TR 9:30 to 10:45 (Lecture 4);Place:;All lectures held in 1800 Engineering Hall;Lecture Text:;Information Technology and Society by Laudon, Traver & Laudon;Lab Text:;Point, Click & Drag: Using the Macintosh by Peterson;Course Introduction:;This class is designed to take you from zero knowledge of computers;to being a crack shot user (and using these skills to get yourself through;college and into the job arena!). Our lab sections are taught using Macintosh;computers, but sections using PCs are available (see CS132;Using Computers - Lectures 1 &2).;The course has two components:;Part 1 - Lecture:;In the lecture we will discuss computers in ""generic"" terms,;i.e. general computer science topics. We will discuss how computers work,;including the following topics (not necessarily in this order):;application programs (including word processors, spreadsheets, graphics; and databases);hardware, input/output, storage devices;operating systems, programming languages;networks and telecommunications;artificial intelligence and expert systems;computer-related social issues;Part 2 - Lab:;In the laboratory (discussion) sections you will have hands-on experience;on Macintosh IIci computers with the following programs:;word processing (MS Word 5.0);electronic mail, newsgroups, and World Wide Web (Eudora 3.0 and; Netscape 3.0);painting and drawing (Aldus SuperPaint 3.0);spreadsheet and charting (MS Excel 5.0);database (FileMaker);presentation manager (HyperCard 2.1);desktop publishing (Aldus PageMaker 4.0);An integral part of lab is learning the Macintosh operating system (System;7.5.3) as well.;In addition, there are some special tools (CD-ROM and scanners) available.;There are 10 TAs that teach the lab sections. Both the TAs and I have the;goal of providing you with high quality instruction and a rich educational;experience.;TAs:;Name;Section;Time;Days;Jon Bodner;358;6:10;MW;Nick Leavy;338;340;3:30;11:00;MW;TR;Shannon Lloyd;354;356;5:20;6:40;TR;TR;Jeff Reminga;331;357;7:45;4:50;MWF;MW;Ira Sharenow;351;352;1:00;2:30;TR;TR;Brian Swander;335;336;12:05;1:20;MWF;MWF;Brad Thayer;333;334;9:55;11:00;MWF;MWF;Joe Varghese;339;355;9:30;8:00;TR;TR;Geoff Weinberg;337;353;2:25;4:00;MWF;TR;Maria Yuin;332;359;8:50;7:30;MWF;MW;Recommended Background:;No background is necessary for this course.;Assignments, Quizzes and Exams:;Your grade will be based on two exams from lecture, and on regular assignments;and quizzes in lab.;Syllabus:;To glance at the syllabus (which contains all nitty-gritty class details),;click here.;Assignments:;Assignment 3: SuperPaint;Assignment 4: Excel;Last modified: October 13, 1996 by Jon;Bodner;"
"Sally Peterson's Home Page; Sally Goodwin Peterson;Lecturer;Computer Sciences;University of Wisconsin;1210 W. Dayton St.;Madison, WI 53706-1685;E-mail: sally@cs.wisc.edu;Telephone: (608) 263-7763;Interests: desktop computing, real-time operating systems, programming languages; Courses Taught;;For fall, 1994:;; Comp. Sci. 132, Lectures 3 & 4, Using Computers.; Last Changed: September 26, 1994 by sally@cs.wisc.edu;"
"Amit's home page; WARNING;Reaching Me; Protocol; Office; Home; Email; amit@cs.wisc.edu; Snail Mail; Computer Sciences Dept.; University of Wisconsin;Madison,; WI 53706; 304 Princeton Ave., #2;Madison,; WI 53705;; Phone;(608) 262-6624;(608) 236-0193;Education; Working towards a PhD under the guidance of:; Jeff Naughton.; Master of Science, Computer Sciences, Dec. 1995,; University of Wisconsin -; Madison; Bachelor of Technology, Computer Sciences and Engineering, May 1994,; Indian Institute of Technology,; Madras; Research Interests; Online Analytical Processing; Query Processing; Performance Evaluation; Publications; Storage Estimation for Multidimensional Aggregates in the Presence of; Hierarchies; Amit Shukla,; Prasad M. Deshpande,;; Jeffrey F. Naughton, and;; Karthikeyan Ramasamy;22nd International Conference on Very Large Databases, Mumbai (Bombay), 1996.; The paper in postscript.; Slides from the presentation at VLDB96 ( ppt; or ps).; Interesting Links; Madison; Running; Boston Marathon (MA); Chicago Marathon (IL); Madison Marathon (WI); New York Marathon (NY); Seattle Marathon (WA); St. George Marathon (Utah);; Database Related Pointers;ACT-NET:; Research Network on Active Databases;Bibliography Server; on Databases and Logic Programming;Competitive Profiles - TPC, SPEC, ... (IDEAS International); Database; Conferences Sorted by Name (University of Trier); Database Conferences Sorted by; Date (SIGMOD Server); Very Large Data Bases (VLDB); Endowment;Database Article Archive;Massive Digital Data Systems (MDDS) Initiative;Multimedia Information Sources;National Industrial Information Infrastructure Protocols; (NIIIP) Consortium;Transaction Processing Council (TPC);TransCoop - Transaction; Management Support for Cooperative Applications;An OLAP Page;OLAP: An Introduction (Pilot Software);Interested in helping educate needy children? Look at the; ASHA home page.;My;personal page;and;bookmarks;are also online.; Garfield;"
"Ashwin's Home Page;; This page is under construction; My name is S. Ashwin . I'm a graduate student in the;Department of Computer Science at the;University of Wisconsin, Madison. I come from; India, and had;my undergraduate education at the Indian;Institute of Technology, Bombay. The;Department of CS at IITB is a fantastic place and worth visiting.; If you'd like to contact me, you can;finger me;to find my whereabouts.;Alternatively, you can send email to me at sashwin@cs.wisc.edu .; My bookmarks.;"
"S.Subramanya Sastry's Home Page;I am ...;S Subramanya Sastry( Here is a mugshot of mine).;I come from Hospet, a town in;Karnataka , India .;Did 12 years of my schooling there. Near Hospet(10 kms away) is;Hampi , the ruins of the Vijayanagara Empire. Also, 5 kms away, is;the Tungabhadra Dam, built across the Tungabhadra river. These places are;beautiful, but unfortunately I dont have photographs of these places or I;would have scanned and put them in my photo album.;Not so long ago,;I was an undergraduate at the;Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur ,;in the;Department of Computer Science and Engineering. Those 4 years;were wonderful. My photo album has a few;photographs from that time.;Gokul is also maintaining a;photo album which contains many photos of IITK. The;IITK Class of '95 homepage has information about my classmates;at IITK.;The present;Currently, I am a graduate student in the;Computer Sciences Department at the;University of Wisconsin, Madison. I plan to do a Ph.D. here.;Here are the courses that I have registered;for in Spring '96.;Interests;My academic interests lie in the fields of; Architecture,;Programming Languages and Compilers.;Hope to graduate some day with a Ph.D. in one of these fields.;Cricket is one of my favourite sports. Used to play;phatta at IITK which is a tennis-ball version of cricket. Not that;I was a champ or anything, but it provided a lot of entertainment;in the company of my friends.;My bookmarks have a few links to some cricket sites.;I enjoy listening to music, anything that is pleasant to the ear. I must;say I dont consider hard rock or metal something really pleasant. I do;not watch much TV, but of whatever I have watched, I liked Seinfeld's;show very much.;As far as reading goes, I am not a voracious reader. Rather than say what;I like, I can better say what I do not like. I do not like horror, fantasy,;neither do I like Science Fiction. I have unsuccesfully tried to;come to grips with these. I like something which is down-to-earth,;if you know what I mean. Something which has a hint of romance in it, if;possible. Jeffrey Archer has been my favourite author to date. I also;liked Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice very much. Talking of reading,; Ramesh Mahadeven's;articles make for some interesting reading.;I also like playing bridge. Back at IIT, Kanpur, I picked up this wonderful;game in the company of my friends. After a long time, I am back at it;again here. I also like solving crosswords, the cryptic kind. But, in;the past year, I have not devoted much time to this hobby of mine.;Last Updated : January 20th, 1996;Send in your comments/suggestions to :;sastry@cs.wisc.edu;University of Wisconsin, Madison home page;"
"Susan Calcari's Home Page; Susan Calcari;Manager, Net Scout Services;Computer Sciences Department;University of Wisconsin - Madison;scal@cs.wisc.edu;My title is Internet Scout, and I manage Net Scout Services from the Computer Sciences Department at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. Scout;Services is a project of the InterNIC;and is supported by the National Science;Foundation. Net Scout Services supports Internet users in the;higher-education community by providing timely information about the best;resources and tools on the Internet. Our goal is to help researchers and;educators use the Internet effectively in their work. Each week we filter;hundreds of items about the Internet, edit and organize the most;important, and present the information in multiple usable formats.; Services include the Scout Report, the Scout Toolkit, Net-happenings, and coming soon;the Scout Sprouts Report, a newsletter written by kids for kids.;Over 35,000 people receive the Scout Report each week via email, and;thousands more read it on the Web. The Scout Report is an annotated;listing of the best new and newly discovered Internet resources and tools,;and it is the only publication of its kind devoted to the research and;education community. The Scout Report is very selective in the items;included in each issue. Over 10,000 people receive Net-happenings;postings every weekday, and again, thousands more read it via the Web or;the newsgroup each day. See the Net Scout Services page for more;information on these and other services.; Professional Background; I have been involved in nation-wide Internet projects since 1989 when;I joined Merit, Inc., in Ann Arbor, the organization that managed the;NSFNET backbone project from 1987-1995. I worked in the Information;Services division of the project, and spent three years speaking to;national and international higher-education audiences about the Internet;and its resources. I also developed and produced the Merit Network Seminar;Series, the first national seminar series focused on the needs of Internet;end-users.; Later I became the Director of Network Information Services for;CERFnet, a respected Internet provider based in San Diego. While there I;co-wrote the proposal which resulted in the award of part of the InterNIC;project under a 5 year cooperative agreement with the National Science;Foundation (NSF). In the third year of the agreement, NSF terminated the;portion of the InterNIC based in San Diego, but chose to continue the work;of the Internet Scout. At that time I elected to relocate to Wisconsin and;requested that NSF approve the relocation of the Scout project to the;Computer Sciences department at UW - Madison, to which they heartily;agreed.; Future Plans for Scout Services;At this time the Scout Services staff includes Jack Solock, Special;Librarian, and myself. During May the project will expand with the;addition of 2 FTE, including an open System;Administrator position and an open Special;Librarian position. On June 6 Matthew Livesey will join the staff as a;Project Assistant. Goals for the new staff will include expansion of the;Scout Toolkit and the addition of discipline-specific services, such as;Scout Reports and Web pages devoted to specific areas of study.;During 1996 Scout Services will also branch into one or more research;areas in collaboration with InterNIC Support Services and with groups at;UW-Madison and other U.S. campuses. Potential research topics include;network information discovery and retrieval (NIDR), and;discipline-oriented information gathering and publication. Depending on;the nature of the research, additional staff will be hired and will;include;computer science researchers at the graduate and undergraduate levels.; For More Information; Visit our Web site to find out more about Scout Services or to join any of;our mailing lists. If;you are interested in applying for any of our open positions, see the;online job descriptions for the System;Administrator or Special Librarian and send a;resume and a writing sample to the address below. Or feel free to contact;me via telephone or email.;Susan Calcari;Internet Scout;Computer Sciences Department;University of Wisconsin - Madison;1210 W. Dayton Street Rm. 3379;Madison, WI 53706;scal@cs.wisc.edu; 608.265.8042;"
"Chandrasekar's Home Page; Welcome to S. Chandrasekar's Homepage; ""Don't worry. Be Happy !"";; Present; I'm a graduate student in the; Department of Computer Science;; Past; I was born on 2nd June, 1975 in Coimbatore in the southern state of;TamilNadu in;India.; I had my high school education at G.R.G. Higher Secondary school in Coimbatore.; My undergraduate education was at the;Indian Institute of Technology,;Kharagpur majoring from the;Dept. of Computer Science &amp Engineering.; Personal Stuff...;Residence;2016, Kendall Avenue, Apt #2;Madison, WI 53705, USA;;(608)232-1894;Office;Dept. of Computer Science;1210, W. Dayton St, #6351;Madison, WI 53706, USA;(608)263-0475;Sivasankaran Chandrasekar /;schandra@cs.wisc.edu;Last updated: Oct 5, 1996 4:30pm CDT; You can;finger me to find my whereabouts.;This page has been accessed; times since Oct 5, 1996;"
"Eric Schnarr's Home Page;Eric Schnarr;(schnarr@cs.wisc.edu);Research Assistant;Department of Computer Sciences;University of Wisconsin-Madison;1210 West Dayton Street;Madison, WI 53706 USA;Phone: (608) 262-2542;Advisor: Jim Larus;Research Interests:;Architecture Description Languages;Functional Language Design;Interesting Links:; Wisconsin Wind Tunnel; SACM Hockey Club; Dragon Bytes;schnarr@cs.wisc.edu;"
"Yannis Schoinas' Home Page; Yannis Schoinas (schoinas@cs.wisc.edu);;Research Assistant;Department of Computer Sciences;University of Wisconsin - Madison;1210 West Dayton Street;Madison, WI 53706 USA; Note: this page is under construction.;Advisor: Mark Hill;Research Interests:; Parallel Systems;Publications:;;Fine-grain Access Control for Distributed Shared Memory,;Ioannis Schoinas, Babak Falsafi, Alvin R. Lebeck,;Steven K. Reinhardt, James R. Larus, David A. Wood;(The Sixth International Conference on Architectural Support for Programming;Languages and Operating Systems (ASPLOS VI), Oct. 1994).;;Application-Specific Protocols for User-Level Shared Memory,;Babak Falsafi, Alvin R. Lebeck, Steven K. Reinhardt, Ioannis Schoinas,;Mark D. Hill James R. Larus, Anne Rogers, David A. Wood;(Supercomputing '94, Nov. 1994).;Education:; M.S. University of Crete, Iraklio, 1991; B.S. University of Crete, Iraklio, 1989; Last Updated: July 13, 1994; cretan cooking;"
"Steve Seitz's Animation Writeup;;Image Motion Analysis for Character Animation Control;Steve Seitz,; Chuck Dyer;Our research is motivated by the problem of teaching;a graphical model to perform a realistic motion. This problem has;its roots in the art of cartoon animation and has modern applications to;computer animation, virtual reality, teleconferencing, and robotics.;The task is to endow a graphical model with the knowledge of how to perform;a repertoire of interesting motions. Once learned, these motions can be;invoked directly via high-level cues (e.g. ""smile"", ""walk""), inferred via an;abstract goal (e.g. ""go to the store""), or cued off of low-level;events from a virtual input device or an image sequence.;Other projects include the analysis of; periodic motion;and tracking of rigid and nonrigid objects.;"
"Steve Seitz's View Interpolations; View Synthesis by Image Interpolation;Investigators:;Steve Seitz,; Chuck Dyer;We have devised a provably-correct automated technique for creating new;views of a scene from two basis views of the same scene. The technique;relies on geometric image interpolation, known as ""morphing"" in the graphics;community, to produce intermediate images. Although morphing techniques;currently enjoy widespread use, their theoretical validity;has not been established. In particular, does 2D interpolation of two views;of the same scene produce a sequence of physically valid in-between views of;that scene?;Surprisingly, the answer is yes, providing the images first undergo a simple;rectification procedure and certain assumptions about visibility and the;projection process are satisfied.;The view synthesis work described here uses automated stereo techniques to;determine image correspondences. Our more recent work on; View Morphing;considers how user-interaction may be used to guide the interpolation.;Below are computed interpolations for three different image pairs. The;rectified original images are shown at left and right. Click on the;interpolated images (center) to see mpeg movies (~50K) showing the computed;interpolations.; View Interpolations; Original (1); Interpolated (1.5); Original (2);;;;;;;;;;;;;This work is described in:;;Physically-Valid View Synthesis by Image Interpolation,;;S. M. Seitz and C. R. Dyer,;Proc. Workshop on Representation of Visual Scenes,;1995.;;Last Changed: June 30, 1995;"
"View Morphing (by Steve Seitz); View Morphing;Investigators:;Steve Seitz,; Chuck Dyer; Related Publications:;View Morphing; --- to appear in; SIGGRAPH 96;Toward Image-Based Scene Representation Using View Morphing; --- to appear in; ICPR 96;Image morphing techniques can generate compelling 2D transitions between;images. However, differences in object pose or viewpoint often cause;unnatural distortions in image morphs that are difficult to correct manually.;Using basic principles of projective;geometry, this paper introduces a simple extension to image morphing;that correctly handles 3D projective camera and scene transformations.;The technique, called {\em view morphing}, works by prewarping two images;prior to computing a morph and then postwarping the interpolated images.;Because no knowledge of 3D shape is required, the technique may be applied;to photographs and drawings, as well as rendered scenes.;The ability to synthesize changes both in viewpoint and image structure;affords a wide variety of interesting 3D effects via simple image;transformations.; ,;; View morphing between two images of an object taken from; two different viewpoints produces the illusion of physically moving a; virtual camera.;; Click for an;; MPEG movie (184K) of this interpolation.;; Morph between views of different faces produces simultaneous; interpolation of facial shape, color, and pose.;; Click for an;; MPEG movie (143K) of this interpolation.; More MPEG Movies of View Morphs;;; Two resolutions of Mona Lisa <--> Mona Lisa reflection:;;; High resolution MPEG movie (198K, 10 frames);; Low resolution MPEG movie (64K, 20 frames);;;; Click for; MPEG movie (84K) of Jude Shavlik <--> Chuck Dyer;;;Last Changed: September 8, 1996;"
"Periodic Motion Information;;Periodic and Cyclic Motion Analysis;Steve Seitz,; Chuck Dyer;Many real-life motions are periodic in some frame of reference.;For instance, most human locomotory motions (e.g., walking running,;skipping, shuffling) are;periodic in a frame of reference that moves with the person. We have;developed an approach for determining if an image sequence could have been;produced by an object whose motion is periodic in some reference frame.;Unlike all previous attempts to determine periodicity information, our;approach allows the camera to move during filming. For more information;(1.3M poscript paper), click;here.;;Period Trace;This image shows the period trace (red lines) recovered from an image;sequence of a phonograph turntable. Ramps correspond to moments in time;where the turntable was momentarily slowed. The period trace is shown;superimposed on the error surface from which it was recovered.;Real repeating motions tend not to be perfectly even, i.e., the period varies;slightly from one cycle to the next, because of physically important changes;in the scene. A generalization of period is defined for cyclic motions;that makes periodic variation explicit. This representation, called the; period trace, is compact and purely temporal, describing the evolution;of an object or scene without reference to spatial quantities such as;position or velocity. By delimiting cycles and identifying correspondences;across cycles, the period trace provides a means of temporally parsing;a cyclic motion. In addition, several purely temporal motion features can;be derived, relating to the nature and location of irregularities.;The period trace;can also be used for medical image enhancement by compositing images from;different cycles. Furthermore, the period trace can be reliably recovered;from image sequences in a view-invariant fashion using a theory of;affine invariance. For more information (1.3M poscript paper) click;here.; Heart X-ray Image Enhancement;Top: two corresponding angiographic images determined from period;trace. Bottom: composite of 5 such corresponding images. Note additional;structure visible in composite but not apparent in single raw images.;"
"Steve Seitz's Home Page;; Steve Seitz; (seitz@cs.wisc.edu);;; Graduate Student & Research Assistant;Computer Sciences Department,; UW-Madison; 1210 W. Dayton St.;Madison,;; WI,;; USA 53706-1685 Telephone: (608) 262-6619;;Advisor:; Chuck Dyer;Education:; UW-Madison MS C.S., 1993;; UC-Berkeley;BA Math, C.S., 1991.;Areas of Interest:;Image motion analysis, image-based rendering, machine vision,;computer graphics.; Research Projects;; View Morphing;;; View Synthesis -- here is an; MPEG movie showing the computed; interpolation of the two images at left.; Click here for more examples and; MPEG movies;;; Analysis of Cyclic Motion;; Recent Publications;; Other Stuff;;Frequented Links;;Wisconsin Computer Vision Group; Surreal Caching; Click; here for a closer look.;;Other;;Seitz on the Web;;Last Changed: July 16, 1996;"
"CS 540 - Introduction to Artificial Intelligence; CS 540 - Introduction to Artificial Intelligence; General Course Information;This course is offered each Fall and Spring semester.;For the 1996-97 academic year there will be one section in the;fall and two in the spring.; Topics Covered; Principles of knowledge-based search techniques: best-first; search, alpha-beta search; Knowledge representation using predicate logic, semantic networks,; connectionist networks, frames, rules; Automated deduction; Applications in problem solving, planning, expert systems, game playing,; vision, natural language understanding, learning, robotics; Programming will include Lisp, and possibly some Prolog;; previous knowledge of these languages is not assumed;Prerequisite: CS 367; CS 540 Pages of the Various Instructors;; Chuck Dyer (Spring '96, Fall '96);; Ken Kunen (Fall '95, Spring '97);; Jude Shavlik (Fall '95, [on sabbatical 96-97], Spring '98);; Bryan So (Spring '96);; Local AI-Related Links;; UW-Madison AI Seminar;; PhD Qualifying Exam in AI;; Recent Table of Contents and Abstracts of Some AI Journals; (mostly from Wendt Library; readable only if @cs.wisc.edu);; U-Wisc AI Group;; U-Wisc Computer Vision Group;; U-Wisc Machine Learning Group;; U-Wisc Robotics Group;; U-Wisc Computational Biology (includes some AI);; U-Wisc CS Dept; Graduate AI Courses at Wisconsin; CS 760 - Machine Learning; CS 761 - Deduction and Problem Solving; CS 766 - Computer Vision; CS 780 - Robot Motion Planning; External AI-Related Links;;Last modified: Tue Aug 20 15:00:00 1996 by Jude Shavlik;shavlik@cs.wisc.edu;"
"CS 760 - Machine Learning; CS 760 - Machine Learning (Spring 1996); General Course Information; Instructor:;Jude Shavlik; 6357 CS & Stats;shavlik@cs.wisc.edu; Office Hrs: Monday/Wednesday 2-3pm; Teaching Assistant:;Geoff Weinberg; 94 Highway Labs (basement of the CAE building);geoffrey@cs.wisc.edu; Office Hrs: Monday 2:30 - 3:30pm, Wednesday 3:00 - 4:00pm; Office Phone: 262-5139, Home Home: 231-0950;;; Course Overview (postscript);; Course Syllabus (postscript);; Archive of Class Email (only readable if @cs.wisc.edu);; Suggested Class Projects (postscript); Reading Assignments; Assigned May 1, 1996:; Read Chapter 7 (theory refinement) and Chapter 3 (computational learning theory); of Mitchell's textbook;; feedback to author due May 15, 1996.; Assigned April 24, 1996:; Read `Learning Logical Definitions from Relations' by Quinlan (MLJ:5) and; `Knowledge-Based Artificial Neural Networks' by Towell & Shavlik (AIJ:70); Assigned April 22, 1996:; Read `Chunking in Soar' by Laird, Rosenbloom, & Newell (MLJ:1) and; `Learning at the Knowledge Level' by Dietterich (MLJ:1); Assigned April 15, 1996:; Read Chapter 10 (analytical learning) of Mitchell's textbook;; feedback to author due April 26, 1996.; Assigned April 8, 1996:; Read journal articles on `unsupervised learning'; by Fisher (MLJ:2), Rumelhart & Zipser (CogSci:9), and Lenat (AIJ:9).; Assigned April 1, 1996:; Read Chapter 8 (genetic algorithms) of Mitchell's textbook;; feedback to author due April 12, 1996.; Assigned March 20, 1996:; Read Chapter 13 (reinforcement learning) of Mitchell's textbook;; feedback to author due April 5, 1996.; Assigned March 6, 1996:; Read `Backpropagation: The Basic Theory' by Rumelhart et al.; Assigned February 26, 1996:; Read Chapter 5 (neural networks) of Mitchell's textbook;; feedback to author due March 8, 1996.; Also read the ML journal article by Shavlik, Mooney, and Towell that; empirically compares ID3 and backprop.; Assigned February 12, 1996:; Read Chapter 2 (concept space) of Mitchell's textbook;; feedback to author due February 23, 1996; Assigned January 31, 1996:; Read (1) `Machine Learning as an Experimental Science,'; Kibler & Langley, RML:1.1.3, (2) Chapter 4 and Sections 6.10 & 6.11 of; Empirical Methods for Artificial Intelligence, Cohen, MIT Press, 1995,; and (3) Learning Representative Exemplars of Concepts: An Initial Case Study,; Kibler & Aha, RML:2.2.4 (or the ML journal version of this article that's; in the DoIT packet, but under a different title: `Instance-Based Learning; Algorithms').; Assigned January 24, 1996:; Read Chapter 4 (decision trees) of Mitchell's textbook;; feedback to author due February 2, 1996; Assigned January 22, 1996:; Read Chapter 1 (introduction) of Mitchell's textbook;; feedback to author due January 29, 1996;; BRR Assignments; BRR #3: on the ML journal article by Towell & Shavlik on the KBANN algorithm.; Due Monday, May 6, 1996; BRR #2: on the ML journal article by Fisher on the COBWEB algorithm.; Due Wednesday, April 17, 1996; BRR #1: on the ML journal article by Shavlik, Mooney, & Towell that; empirically compares ID3 and backprop.; Due Wednesday, March 20, 1996; Be sure to answer (on one sheet of paper):;; Best Idea and Why?; What to do Next and How?;; Do not summarize the assigned paper (one-sentence summary as a lead-in is ok);; instead analyze it.; Late policy on BRRs: 50% off if handed in after material covered in lecture.;; Homework Assignments;; Homework 4: Learning from Reinforcements - Q-Learning; Due Wednesday, April 10, 1996;; Homework 3: Training Neural Networks - BP; Due Monday, March 25, 1996;; Homework 2: Experimental Methodology; Due Monday, February 26, 1996;; Homework 1: Inducing Decision Trees - ID3; Due Monday, February 12, 1996;; Homework 0: Creating Your Personal Concept; Due Monday, January 29, 1996; Late policy on HWs:;; HWs are due at the start of class.; Each student will have FIVE ""free"" late days for use; over the semester. Once these are exhausted, there will be; a penalty of 10% per day (measured noon-to-noon; weekends are free).; To make the TA's job tractable, no HWs will be accepted more than; one week late.;; Previously Used Homeworks (postscript); Homeworks - Spring 1995 (most of these will migrate up as the semester progresses);;; Homework 1 - Inducing Decision Trees (ID3);; Homework 2 - Heuristically Searching Concept Space (AQ);; Homework 3 - Training Neural Networks (BP);; Homework 4 - Learning from Reinforcements (Q-Learning and GA's);; Homework 2 - Version Space (1992, postscript);; Homework 4 - Explanation-Based Learning (1993, postscript);; Homework 5 - Cobweb (1992, postscript);; Previous Exams (postscript); Spring 1996 |; Spring 1995 |; Spring 1994 |; Spring 1993; Spring 1992 |; Spring 1990 |; Spring 1989 |; Spring 1988; <IneedAgoodICON> Some ML-Related Links;; Machine Learning journal; (the on-line page);; NIPS-95 papers (the premier neural net conference);; Recent Table of Contents and Abstracts of Selected Journals; (mostly from Wendt Library; readable only if @cs.wisc.edu);; The UC-Irvine ML Dataset Archive;; Pointers to ML Courses;; Knowledge Discovery in Databases;; Neural Network Resources;; Some ILP Stuff;; Machine Learning Benchmarking;; IEEE Neural Networks Council (several journals connected to this page);; International Society for Adaptive Behavior;; AI Bibliography Server (Austrian AI Institute);; Neural Networks Bibliography Server (Austrian AI Institute);; AI Resources (Canadian NRC Server);; Aha's Links to People in ML;; More External AI References; Help with Programming Assignments;(from CS 540's page);; Using AKCL Common Lisp on Departmental Workstations;; Some Tips on Using Vi and Emacs for Lisp-code Writing;; Frequently Asked Questions about Lisp and the Course Computers;; Some Tips on Using the AKCL Debugger;; Some Help for Lisp Novices;; Lisp FAQ's (frequently asked questions);; Steele's Common Lisp: The Language (2nd Edition); (This is a reference manual and not a textbook.);; About Printing and Printers |;; How to Print WWW Pages; Related Local Links;; U-Wisc ML Group;; U-Wisc ML & Math-Programming Group;; U-Wisc Comp Biology (includes some ML);; U-Wisc AI Group;; U-Wisc CS Dept;; U-Wisc Library;; More local links;Last modified: Mon Apr 29 14:08:09 1996 by Jude Shavlik;shavlik@cs.wisc.edu;"
"Jude W. Shavlik's Home Page; Jude W. Shavlik;Associate Professor;Computer Sciences Department;University of Wisconsin;1210 W. Dayton St.;Madison, WI 53706-1685;E-mail: shavlik@cs.wisc.edu;Telephone: (608) 262-7784;Fax: (608) 262-9777;Ph.D., University of Illinois, Urbana, 1988;Interests: machine learning, neural networks, artificial intelligence,;informational retrieval, computational biology; Table of Contents;; Research Summary;; PhD Students;; Selected Recent Publications;; Courses Taught;; Some Interesting Links; Research Summary;We are primarily developing machine learning systems that combine the;strengths of symbolic approaches to artificial intelligence with those of;connectionist AI. A major focus is improving the dialog between human;teachers and machine learners. Traditionally, this interaction is limited to;the teacher providing labelled training examples to the machine. Toward the;goal of widening the ``communication pipeline'' between human and machine, we;have been developing a language for providing, in a natural manner and at any;time, general-purpose advice to a machine learner. In our approach, the human;advice-giver observes the behavior of the learner and occasionally makes;suggestions, expressed in a simple language. Based on techniques developed in;our work on knowledge-based neural networks, these instructions are inserted;directly into learner. Subsequent connectionist (neural network) learning;further integrates and refines the advice.;Currently, we are extending the language used to advise our learning algorithms,;studying new ways of incorporating this advice into neural networks,;investigating the extraction of human-comprehensible rules from trained neural networks,;and developing methods for choosing good representations for training examples.;We are also developing parallel algorithms,;on the department's Condor system and our CM-5 computer,;for machine learning and computational biology.;Shavlik (1992);and (1996);provide an overview of our approach to knowledge-based neural networks.;Recent developments appear in the papers referenced on this page, as well;as in the ""home pages"" of the students listed below.; PhD Students;; Carolyn Allex;; Kevin Cherkauer;; Mark Craven (graduated September 1996);; Tina Eliassi-Rad; Eric Gutstein (graduated June 1993);; Richard Maclin (graduated August 1995);; David Opitz (graduated August 1995);; Geoffrey Towell (graduated October 1991);; Selected Recent Publications;Click;here to see our recent titles and abstracts;(you can also grab all our abstracts in one;file;or directly access;our ftp directory of postscript versions of recent papers.; Maclin, R. & Shavlik, J. W. (1996).;; Creating advice-taking reinforcement learners.;Machine Learning, 22:1-3, 251-281.; Craven, M. W. & Shavlik, J. W. (1996).;; Extracting tree-structured representations of trained networks.;Proceedings of the Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NIPS8).; Opitz, D. W. & Shavlik, J. W. (1996).;; Generating accurate and diverse members of a neural-network ensemble.;Proceedings of the Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NIPS8).; Cherkauer, K. J. & Shavlik, J. W. (1996).;; Rapid quality estimation of neural network input representations.;Proceedings of the Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NIPS8).; Opitz, D. W. & Shavlik, J. W. (1995).;; Dynamically adding symbolically meaningful nodes to knowledge-based neural networks.;Knowledge-Based Systems, 8:6, 301-311.; Towell, G. G. & Shavlik, J. W. (1994).;; Knowledge-based artificial neural networks.;Artificial Intelligence, 70:1-2, 119-165.; Shavlik, J. W. (1994).;; Combining symbolic and neural learning.;Machine Learning, 14:3, 321-331.; Towell, G. G. & Shavlik, J. W. (1993).;; The extraction of refined rules from knowledge-based neural networks.;Machine Learning, 13:1, 71-101.; Maclin, R. & Shavlik, J. W. (1993).;; Using knowledge-based neural networks to improve algorithms:; Refining the Chou-Fasman algorithm for protein folding.;Machine Learning, 11:2/3, 195-215.; Scott. G. M., Shavlik, J. W., & Ray, H. (1992).; Refining PID controllers using neural networks.; Neural Computation, 4:5, 736-747.; (A; NIPS4 version is on line.); Shavlik, J. W., Towell, G. G., & Noordewier, M. O. (1992).; Using neural networks to refine biological knowledge.; International Journal of Genome Research, 1:1, 81-107.; Shavlik, J. W., Mooney, R. J., & Towell, G. G. (1991).; An experimental comparison of symbolic and connectionist learning algorithms.; Machine Learning, 6:2, 111-143.; (A; version is on-line, but several figures are missing.); Shavlik, J. W. & Dietterich, T. D., eds., (1990).; Readings in Machine Learning, Morgan Kaufmann, San Mateo, CA.; Courses Recently Taught;; CS 540 - Introduction to Artificial Intelligence (Fall 1995);; CS 838 - Machine Learning and Information Retrieval (Fall 1995);; CS 760 - Machine Learning (Spring 1996);; Some Interesting Links;; U-Wisc CS Dept;; U-Wisc AI Group;; U-Wisc Machine Learning Group (my group);; U-Wisc Computational Biology Research (includes some ML);; U-Wisc Computational Neuroscience Research;; Various local links of interest;; Procs: Workshop on Agents that Learn from Other Agents,; held at the 1995 International Machine Learning Conference.;;Last modified: Fri Jul 5 18:40:39 1996 by Jude Shavlik;shavlik@cs.wisc.edu;"
"Home Page of the UW-Madison Machine Learning Research Group;This WWW home page contains relevant information about, and for, the;members of the Machine Learning Research Group (MLRG);at the University of Wisconsin - Madison.; Table of Contents;; Group Members;; MLRG's Archive of Recent Papers;; MLRG's Archive of Datasets and Domain Theories;; MLRG's Paper-Reading Schedule;; The AI Seminar;; CS 760 - Machine Learning (graduate course);; Relevant Local Links;; Some Useful External Links; Group Members;; Carolyn Allex;; Jonathon Bodner;; Kevin Cherkauer;; Mark Craven;; Tina Eliassi;; Richard Maclin (graduated August 1995);; David Opitz (graduated August 1995);; Jude Shavlik; MLRG's Archive of Recent Papers;Visit the page describing our;recent publications.;(An ASCII file containing a list of our recent;abstracts;is also available.); MLRG's Archive of Datasets and Domain Theories;You can access our ftp directory that contains several;ML testbeds. (You can also access via ftp the;Wisconsin Breast Cancer Database,;which is from Prof. Olvi Mangasarian's;group).; MLRG's Paper-Reading Schedule;See the;MLRG's current schedule of papers to read.;(Our;old schedules are also on line.); The AI Seminar;See the current schedule of the local;AI seminar.; Relevant Local Links;; CS 760 - Machine Learning (graduate course);; UW-Madison Machine-Learning/Math-Programming Group;; Computational Biology in the UW-Madison CS Dept;; UW-Madison Computational Neuroscience;; UW-Madison AI Group;; UW-Madison Computer Vision Group;; UW-Madison Robotics Group;; UW-Madison CS Dept Home Page;; UW-Madison Home Page (DoIT);; UW-Madison Center for Mathematical Sciences Gopher;; UW-Madison Graduate School;; UW-Madison Library;; Recent Table of Contents and Abstracts of Selected ML Journals; (mostly from Wendt Library; readable only if @cs.wisc.edu);; Procs: Workshop on Agents that Learn from Other Agents,; held at the 1995 International Machine Learning Conference.;; More local links;Last modified: Fri Mar 1 11:00:45 1996 by Jude Shavlik;shavlik@cs.wisc.edu;"
"Shubu Mukherjee's Home Page;;Shubu Mukherjee;(shubu@cs.wisc.edu);Above: With my fiancee Mimi. Below: my nephew Avirup when he was 7 months old.;Graduate Research Assistant;Computer Sciences Department;University of Wisconsin - Madison.;1210 West Dayton Street;Madison, WI 53706-1685 USA;Phone: 608 262 5083;Fax: 608 262 9777;[aka Shubhendu S. Mukherjee]; [Click on button to jump to corresponding home page/article.];;Advisor: Mark D. Hill;;Research Project: Wisconsin Wind Tunnel;;Publications;;Wisconsin Computer Architects;;World-Wide Computer Architects;;Badger Ballroom Dance Team;;Other Personal Interests/Hobbies;;Morph between Dionisios and myself;(Courtesy: Steve Seitz);;Some random (but interesting) links;Education;Ph.D;University of Wisconsin-Madison;,;Jan 1994 - Spring 1998 (expected);M.S.;University of Wisconsin-Madison;, Sep 1992 - Dec 1993;B.Tech.;Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur,;;India, Aug 1987 - May 1991; Research Summary;Coherent Network Interfaces (PhD Dissertation); Cachable Queues & Design Space;(ISCA96); More (In Progress);Distributed Shared Memory; Mechanisms for Cooperative Shared Memory;(ISCA93); On Commodity Workstations (Submitted for Publication);Cache Coherence Protocols; Custom Protocols for Irregular Applications;(PPoPP95); Gray-software;(ICS94); Dir1SW+;(ISCA93);Parallel Simulation;(Wind Tunnel Tutorial);Cache Simulation;(JSS94);Copyright &copy 1996 by Shubu Mukherjee. All rights reserved.;"
"Jim Skrentny's Home Page; Jim Skrentny;CS367 Lecturer;CS302 Coordinator;Graduate Student;Computer Sciences Department;University of Wisconsin - Madison;1210 W. Dayton St.;Madison, WI 53706;Office: 1303 Computer Sciences;Email: skrentny@cs.wisc.edu;Telephone: (608) 262-0191;Fax: (608) 262-9777; Related Links; CS367; University of Wisconsin CS Department; University of Wisconsin AI Group;skrentny@cs.wisc.edu, Last Updated: February 3, 1995;"
"Bryan So's Home Page; Bryan So;Graduate Student;Computer Sciences Department;University of Wisconsin - Madison;1210 W. Dayton St.;Madison, WI 53706;Office: CS 5364;E-mail: so@cs.wisc.edu;Telephone: (608) 262-5105;Fax: (608) 262-9777;;MS Computer Sciences, University of Wisconsin-Madison 1989;BS Computer Science, Purdue University, 1988;Interests:;intelligent help systems, human-computer interaction, knowledge;representation of operating system activities; Selected Recent Publications; So, B. & Travis, L., ""A Step Toward an Intelligent UNIX Help; System: Knowledge Representation of UNIX Utilities"", Technical; Report #1230, University of Wisconsin-Madison, April 1994.; Miller, B.P., Fredriksen, L. & So, B., ""An Empirical Study of; the Reliability of UNIX Utilities"", Communications of the; ACM, 33:12, Dec. 1990.; Related Links;; University of Wisconsin CS Department;; University of Wisconsin AI Group;; Professor Larry Travis, Advisor; Last Updated: Jan 20, 1996;"
"Larry E. Travis' Home Page; Larry E. Travis;Professor;Computer Sciences Department;University of Wisconsin;1210 W. Dayton St.;Madison, WI 53706-1685;E-mail: travis@cs.wisc.edu;Telephone: (608) 262-6587;Fax: (608) 262-9777;Ph.D., University of Californa, Los Angeles, 1966;Interests: Expert systems, non-procedural control of automatic deduction,;computer support for understanding complex data, philosophical foundations of;artificial intelligence, computing management, social implications of computing.; Research Summary;My research centers around using logic as a basis for knowledge;formalization in expert systems and for deductive augmentation of database;systems. Recent work has focused on non-procedural control of automatic;deduction and on design of systems that support the contruction, display,;and testing of high-level abstractions from patterns formed by information;contained in large, heterogeneous databases. Special attention is being;devoted to the representation and use of geographic information in ways;that enhance data integration and data visualizability (as with maps). I;am actively involved with several expert system development projects and;with a large ""intelligent"" database project that incorporates databases,;""what if"" modeling, and visualization aids into a single integrated system;;with organizational and social issues associated with the introduction and;use of information technology; and with analysis of the pre-suppositions;underlying alternative approaches to artificial intelligence.; Current PhD Students;; Chuck Ohare;; Bryan So;; Scott Swanson;; Andy Whitsitt;; Derek Zahn; Recent Publications; If we could do it again: ""Failures"" in expert system development; and implementation (with J. Oravec) to appear in Journal of; Systems and Software, 1992.; The computational metaphor and artificial intelligence: A reflexive; examination of AI's falsework (with D. West) Artificial; Intelligence Magazine, 1991.; From society to landscape: Alternative metaphors for artificial; intelligence (with D. West) Artificial Intelligence; Magazine, 1991.;; Some Interesting Links;; U-Wisc CS Dept;; U-Wisc AI Group; Last Changed: June 4, 1994 by so@cs.wisc.edu;"
"Avinash Sodani's Home Page; Avinash Sodani (sodani@cs.wisc.edu);; Graduate Student; Department of Computer Sciences;University of Wisconsin-Madison; 1210 West Dayton Street; Madison, WI 53706 USA; Education; M.S. Computer Science, University of Wisconsin-Madison, May 1996.; B.Tech (Hons) Computer Science,; Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur,; India , July 1994.; Academic Interests; Computer Architecture; Multiscalar (Kestrel) Project; Programming Languages and Compilers; Some Interesting Course Projects; RPC Package for Java . (Download the package).; Meet; My batch-mates. (CS '94); CS Related Links; CPU Info Center; CS departments on the Web; Ranks of CS departments; India Related Links; India News; The Hindu : Online Edition; Random Links; Looking for a KGPite ? Follow this .; AT&T Toll Free 800 Directory; Wills World Cup Cricket '96;This page has been accessed times since Feb 21, 1996;"
"Guri Sohi's Home Page; Gurindar S. Sohi (sohi@cs.wisc.edu);Associate Professor of;Computer Sciences and;Electrical and Computer Engineering; Addresses; Education; Research Interests and Summary; Current Graduate Students; Recent Talks; Recent Publications; Recent Ph.D Graduates;Addresses:;Department of Computer Sciences;University of Wisconsin - Madison;1210 West Dayton Street;Madison, WI 53706 USA;sohi@cs.wisc.edu;Phone: 608-262-7985;Departmental Office: 608-262-1204;Fax: 608-262-9777;Education:; Ph.D. (Computer Science) University of Illinois - Urbana, 1985; M.S. (Electical Engineering) University of Illinois - Urbana, 1983; B.E. (Electrical and Electronics Engineering) Birla Institute of Technology and Science - Pilani, India, 1981;Research Interests:; Instruction-level parallel (ILP) processing; Compiling for ILP architectures; Shared memory multiprocessors; Memory Systems; Research Summary;My current research focuses on the design of the;highest performance uniprocessors of a current generation.;Currently we are investigating the architecture of;a circa 2000 processor. With plenty of transistors available;on a chip, the challenge is to use these resources to get;the highest possible performance when executing a sequential program.;A target that we have set for ourselves is to sustain the execution of;over 10 instructions per cycle,;for ordinary non-numeric application programs.;My research group is investigating several issues that need;to be resolved before our goals can be achieved.;We are studying and characterizing the;nature of instruction-level parallelism in non-numeric;application programs in order to understand the available parallelism and;how it could be exploited.;The bulk of my group's research effort is expended in continuing the;development of the; Multiscalar processing model,;a novel paradigm for exploiting ILP.;Currently we are developing the Multiscalar compiler, and;carrying out detailed simulation studies to assess;the potential of the Multiscalar concept.;Current Graduate Students; Todd Austin; Scott Breach; Andreas Moshovos; T.N. Vijaykumar;Recent Talks;Will Instruction Sets be Important in Future Processors?;given at the RISC in 1995 Symposium held at IBM T. J. Watson Research;Center, Yorktown Heights, NY, November 7-8, 1995.;File is compressed postscript, generated by Framemaker.;Multiscalar Processors.;The generic Multiscalar talk, given at several places.;File is compressed postscript, generated by Framemaker.;Recent Publications;High-Bandwidth Address Translation for Multiple-Issue Processors,;T. M. Austin and G. S. Sohi, to appear in;23rd Annual International Symposium on Computer Architecture, May 1996.;An appendix of;detailed results;is also available.);Zero-Cycle Loads: Microarchitecture Support for Reducing Load Latency;T. M. Austin and G. S. Sohi,;28th Annual International Symposium on Microarchitecture (MICRO-28), 1995.;The Microarchitecture of Superscalar Processors;J. E. Smith and G. S. Sohi,;in Proceedings of the IEEE, December 1995.;A Hardware Mechanism for Dynamic Reordering of Memory References;M. Franklin and G. S. Sohi,;to appear in IEEE Transactions on Computers.;Multiscalar Processors,;G. S. Sohi, S. Breach, and T. N. Vijaykumar,;22th International Symposium on Computer Architecture, 1995.;Streamlining Data Cache Access with Fast Address Calculation,;T. M. Austin, D. N. Pnevmatikatos, and G. S. Sohi,;22th International Symposium on Computer Architecture, 1995.;The Anatomy of the Register File in a Multiscalar Processor,;S. Breach, T. N. Vijaykumar, and G. S. Sohi,;27th Annual International Symposium on Microarchitecture (MICRO-27), 1994.;Request Combining in Multiprocessors with Arbitrary Interconnection Networks,;A. Lebeck and G. S. Sohi,;in IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems, 1994.;Efficient Detection of All Pointer and Array Access Errors,;T. M. Austin, S. E. Breach and G. S. Sohi,;SIGPLAN '94 Conference on Programming Language Design and Implementation, 1994.;Guarded Execution and Branch Prediction in Dynamic ILP Processors,;D. Pnevmatikatos and G. S. Sohi, 21th International Symposium on Computer Architecture, 1994.;Memory Systems,;J. R. Goodman and G. S. Sohi, The Handbook of Electrical Engineering, CRC Press, 1993.;Control Flow Prediction for Dynamic ILP Processors,;D. Pnevmatikatos, M. Franklin and G. S. Sohi,;26th Annual International Symposium on Microarchitecture (MICRO-26), 1993.;Register Traffic Analysis for Streamlining Inter-operation Communication;in Fine-Grain Parallel Processors,;M. Franklin and G. S. Sohi, 25th Annual International Symposium on Microarchitecture;(MICRO-25), 1992.;The Expandable Split Window Paradigm for Exploiting Fine-Grain Parallelism,;M. Franklin and G. S. Sohi, 19th International Symposium on Computer Architecture, 1992.;Dynamic Dependency Analysis of Ordinary Programs,;T.M. Austin and G. S. Sohi, 19th International Symposium on Computer Architecture, 1992.;Efficient Detection of All Pointer and Array Access Errors;T.M. Austin, S. E. Breach and G. S. Sohi,;Technical Report #1197, Computer Sciences Department, University of Wisconsin-Madison, December 1993.;Guarded Execution and Branch Prediction in Dynamic ILP Processors;D. N. Pnevmatikatos and G. S. Sohi,;Technical Report #1193, Computer Sciences Department, University of Wisconsin-Madison, November 1993.;Knapsack: A Zero-Cycle Memory Hierarchy Component;T. M. Austin, T. N. Vijaykumar, and G. S. Sohi,;Technical Report #1189, Computer Sciences Department, University of Wisconsin-Madison, November 1993.;Tetra: Evaluation of Serial Program Performance on Fine-Grain Parallel Processors;T. M. Austin and G. S. Sohi,;Technical Report #1162, Computer Sciences Department, University of Wisconsin-Madison, July 1993.;Recent Ph.D Grads;Todd Austin,;Ph.D., April 1996,;Hardware and Software Mechanisms for Reducing Load Latency;Dionisios Pnevmatikatos,;Ph.D., December 1995,;Incorporating Guarded Execution into Existing Instruction Sets;Manoj Franklin,;Ph.D., December 1993,;The Multiscalar Architecture;Mark Friedman,;Ph.D., January 1992,;An Architectural Characterization of Prolog Execution;Sriram Vajapeyam,;Ph.D., December 1991,;Instruction Level Characterization of the Cray Y-MP Processor;Men-Chow Chiang,;Ph.D., September 1991,;Memory System Design for Bus Based Multiprocessors; Last Updated: 5 April 1996;"
"CS 736 - Fall 1995;CS 736Advanced Operating SystemsFall 1995;Marvin Solomon;office: 5355 Computer Sciences;office hours: 9:00 TR;office phone: 262-1204;email address:; solomon@cs.wisc.edu;News; Watch this space for the latest updates.;Last updated: Thu Dec 14 10:30:08 CST 1995;Dec 14;The schedule for; project presentations is listed below.;Dec 8;The Final Exam will be Monday, Dec. 18, from 2:45 to 4:45 pm in;room 1221, Computer Sciences and Statistics building.;Project presentations will be in room 2310 on Friday, Dec. 15,;from 10 am until noon.;Oct 20;Here is an example of a past midterm exam;together with sample answers.;Oct 19;The midterm exam will be Wednesday, October 25, from 7:15 to 9:15 pm;in room 1221 Computer Sciences.;The final exam will be Monday, December 18, exact time and place to be;determined.;Sep 29;Project suggestions and other information;about the project are now avaiable.;Aug 30;A more readable version of Figure 5 from the; Multics memory management paper;is available.;Contents; News; Summary; Lecture Information; Text; Course Schedule; Grading; Project; Project Presentations; Summary;This course is intended to give you a broad exposure to advanced;operating systems topics.;I will assume that all students have had a good one-semester course on;operating systems (CS 537 or the equivalent).;We will cover the topics normally presented in such a course, but in;considerably more detail:;synchronization,;interprocess communication,;memory management,;file systems,;protection,;security,;and distributed systems.; Lecture Information;Lecture: 11:00 - 12:15 Tuesday and Thursday, 1263 Computer Sciences;Text;There is really no satisfactory textbook for a graduate level operating;systems class, so we will use;a selection of 26 ``classic'' papers;as our text.;The course will be structured around readings from journal articles and;conference proceedings.;You can purchase these readings at the DoIT (formerly MACC) documentation desk;for about $20.;The readings this semester are very similar, but not identical, to those;of previous semesters.;If you have a used copy, I can make available individual papers for you;to copy.;During each class, we will discuss topics relevant to the current papers;(click;here;for a tentative schedule).;The lecture will not be a detail-by-detail review of the papers, but will;instead be a;discussion of major topics and themes using the papers a focal point.;Active participation in discussion is strongly encouraged.;If you are willing to participate actively and daily in class, you'll get;a lot out of it.;If you expect to sit quietly and listen for 15 weeks, you will get much less;out of this class.;Grading;There will be two exams (a midterm and a final) and a project.;Each will be worth about 1/3 of the total grade.;The exams are designed to verify that you have carefully;and thoroughly read all the readings.;Project;You will be required to complete a term project.;A list of suggested topics will be provided,;but you are strongly encouraged to make up your own project.;Projects may involve implementation of tools, experimental implementations;of algorithms suggested in the research literature, measurement studies,;or simulations.;All projects must have an experimental component.;Literature surveys or unvalidated design papers are not sufficient.;Most projects will be done by two-person groups.;Larger or smaller groups may be approved on a per-case basis.;You will write a term paper summarizing the results of your project.;This paper must meet the standards of a research publication.;It will be graded on the quality of the writing as well as the content.;You will also make a;short presentation;about your project to the class.;Project Presentations;Here is the schedule for project presenations.;All presentations will be in room 2310, Computer Sciences and Statistics.;Times are approximate.;10:00; Manyan Stubbs; Andrew Biggs; Francis Salmon and Gunawan Agus;10:20; Qingmin Wang and Chien-pang (James) Chen; Eric Larsen; Conroy Fritz and Craig Jordan;10:40; Prasad Deshpande and Avinash Sodani; Jim Basney and Rajesh Raman; Biswadeep Nag;11:00; Wei Chen and Taxiao Wang; Lei Cao, Yanming Cao and Xinyu (Richard) Zhang; Todd Munson;11:20; Wenjun Qiu, Xinyi Wang and Yufei Zhu; Zeyu Chen and Sridhar Gopal; Michael Lee;solomon@cs.wisc.edu;Thu Dec 14 10:30:08 CST 1995;"
"Solomon's Home Page; Marvin Solomon; Professor and Former Chair (New chair is; Jim Goodman);; Computer Sciences Department; University of Wisconsin -- Madison; 1210 West Dayton Street; Madison, WI 53706-1685; USA; Phone: (608) 262-1204; Fax: (608) 262-9777;solomon@cs.wisc.edu;Research Interests:;Object-oriented database systems,;Software development support environments,;Distributed operating systems,;Computer networks,;Design and implementation of programming languages,;Programming language theory.;Recent Publications;Towards Effective and Efficient Free Space Management.;Proc. 1996 ACM SIGMOD Conf. on Management of Data, June, 1996.;Mark L. McAuliffe,;Michael J. Carey, and;Marvin Solomon.;Abstract;PostScript;The GMAP: A Versatile Tool for Physical Data Independence.;Proc. Conf. on Very Large Databases, September, 1994.;Odysseas Tsatalos,;Marvin Solomon, and;Yannis Ioannidis.;Abstract;PostScript;Expanded version appears in;The VLDB Journal;v. 5, n. 2 (April 1996);Abstract;PostScript;Shoring Up Persistent Applications.;Proc. 1994 ACM SIGMOD Conf. on Management of Data, June, 1994.;Michael J. Carey,;David J. DeWitt,;Michael J. Franklin,;Nancy E. Hall,;Mark L. McAuliffe,;Jeffrey F. Naughton,;Daniel T. Schuh,;Marvin H. Solomon,;C. K. Tan,;Odysseas G. Tsatalos,;Seth J. White, and;Michael J. Zwilling;Available as;Tech Report 1222.; An Overview of the CAPITL Software Development Environment; Fourth International Workshop on Software Configuration Management;Paul Adams and;Marvin H. Solomon,;Available as;Tech Report 1143.;An updated version;is to appear in; Lecture Notes in Computer Science .; POL: Persistent Objects with Logic;Paul Adams and;Marvin H. Solomon,;Available as;Tech Report 1158.;Other points of interest; A;graphical interface to the; rooms;program, built using; Java .; CS 736 home page from Spring 1995; Univ. of Wisconsin Computer Sciences Department; SHORE project home page; SHORE project photo;album;;Today's Dilbert;"
"Shilpa Lawande's Home Page; Welcome to Shilpa Lawande's Home Page;I am a Graduate Student in the Department of Computer Science at University of Wisconsin-Madison.;Personal Stuff;A link to my past;For more info on what I do at school;Here's my resume in HTML and ascii.;Computer Science, my second love ;-);Useful CS resourses : all the stuff you wanted in one place!;Systers : Women in Computer Science; Stuff related to Madison;Surf Madison;State of Wisconsin, Information Server;The Hoofer Sailing Club;Owls, music, books, movies, java etc :-);Shilpa's signatures;Meet my first love;Snowy's HomePage;Cool Links;Here is;where I can be fingered.; Three judge panel in Philadelphia votes 3-0 that the CDA is not Constitutional.; Follow the link to read the decision.;This page has been accessed times since June 20 1996.;Send comments and suggestions by email to;ssl@cs.wisc.edu or shilpal@cs.wisc.edu;or thru' the guest form;Last Modified : July 29,1996.;;"
"Jeremy Stenglein's Home Page;Jeremy C. Stenglein; Graduate Student, Computer Sciences Department; University of Wisconsin, Madison; 1210 West Dayton Street; Madison, WI 53705; Office : 1302 Computer Science; Phone: (608) 262-6600;e-mail: stenglei@cs.wisc.edu; I am teaching: Computer Science 302, section 3;;General CS 302 Home Page; My section's CS 302 Home Page; I am taking: CS701 - Construction of compilers <; Other Links:;The Computer Science Department Home Page;The Simpson's Home Page;ESPN Sports Net; Hotwired;"
"Steve Reinhardt's Home Page; Steven K. Reinhardt;I'm a graduate student in computer;architecture, working in the Wisconsin Wind Tunnel;group. My advisor is David Wood,;although the other PIs of the WWT project,;Mark Hill and;Jim Larus, often feel free to tell me;what to do as well.;I'm planning on finishing this fall. I will be joining the faculty of;the University of Michigan EECS department in January 1997.;If you're interested, you can find out more on these pages:;Publications;Research Summary;;email: stever@cs.wisc.edu (click here to finger);phone: (608) 262-0664;Department of Computer Sciences;University of Wisconsin - Madison;1210 West Dayton Street;Madison, WI 53706-1685 USA;Last Updated: June 6, 1996;"
"CS310 Home Page; Problem Solving using Computers - Fall 1996; Computer Sciences 310;Check the following pages for information on CS310.;; Instructors and teaching assistants including office hours.;; Information on; assignments including suggestions, copies of assignments, and; explanations about grading.; Check the; policy on assignments, doing your own work, etc.;; Information on; examinations and copies of past exams.;; Information on; labs including copies of the handouts.;;; Documents including a syllabus.;; Many of the documents on these web pages are in postscript.; If you need a postscript viewer, you can obtain one from the; CS ftp site. Check the local services section of the; CS department home page.; Under local services, go to the FTP web page, and then to the; ghost directory. Read the README file for further directions.;"
"John Strikwerda's Home Page; John Strikwerda, Professor, Computer Sciences; John C. Strikwerda;Department of Computer Sciences;University of Wisconsin-Madison;1210 West Dayton Street;Madison, Wisconsin 53706-1685 USA;c.v.;email:;strik@cs.wisc.edu;telephone: (608) 262-0822;fax: (608) 262-9777; This Fall I will be teaching CS310,; Problem Solving Using Computers.; Beginning in January 1997 I will be on assignment with the;National Science Foundation for two years.; Click here for information about;;Numerical Analysis Qualifying exams.;Research Interests:; Numerical Analysis; Computational Fluid Dynamics;My;Official CS Department Home Page;Other Stuff:; The Field Museum; Point: It's What You're Searching For; A rating of web home pages and other information.; Chicago Best of the Web; The Chicago Tribune; Car Talk (the radio show about cars); Big 10 Football;My kids:; Nathan at NU; Nathan; Drew;"
Subba's Home Page; Things I enjoy; Calvin and Hobbes; Late Show with David Letterman; Seinfeld; NBA; Other interests; Prooocessors; Historical interest; The 8717*s; Papers; Evaluating Stream Buffers as a Secondary Cache Replacement; Decoupling Integer Execution in Superscalar Processors; subbarao@cambridge.cs.wisc.edu;
CS132 Lab 321; CS 132; Su-Hui Chiang: Lab 321 (Time: 8-9:15pm TR); Grades;Go to CS132 homepage;Go to my homepage;
"Su-Hui CHiang's Home Page; Su-Hui Chiang; CS Department, University of Wisconsin - Madison;Office: 6384 CS&S;Telephone: (608) 262-6619;Fax: (608) 262-9777;E-mail: suhui@cs.wisc.edu;Click here to send me an email;Office hours: 4-5pm Thurs; This page still under construction......; I'm TAing CS132 this fall; Publications;; Use of Application Characteristics and Limited Preemption for; Run-To-Completion Parallel Processor Scheduling Policies,; with Rajesh Mansharamani and Mary Vernon.; Proc. 1994 ACM SIGMETRICS Conf. on Measurement and Modeling of; Computer Systems, Nashville, TN. May 1994, pp. 33-44.;; Dynamic vs. Static Quantum-Based Parallel Processor Allocation,; with Mary Vernon.; The 2nd Workshop on Job Scheduling Strategies for Parallel; Processing (in conjunction with IPPS'96), April 1996.; Search Engines; Yahoo!; Sources of TR on the net; Resources: Bibliographies; The World-Wide Web Virtual Library: Subject Catalogue; Links Related to Taiwan; Taiwan Network Service; SinaNet (shopping, magzines, news, jobs, calendar, etc); SeedNet; Vistors' Guide to Taiwan; Academia Sinica; Last Updated: Aug. 30, 1996;"
"David Sundaram-Stukel's Homepage; David Sundaram-Stukel's Web Page;; (This is not me.);...where-upon he had the effrontery to push my hand severing the; patient's femoral artery. Blood spurted up and blinded the; anesthetist, who ran out through the halls screaming. Browbeck; tried to knee me in the groin, and I managed to hamstring him with; my scalpel. He crawled about the floor stabbing at my feet and; legs. Voilet, that's my baboon assistant --only woman I; ever cared a damn about-- really wigged. I climbed up on the table; and poise myself to jump on Browbeck with both feet and stomp him; when the cops rushed in.;William Burroughs from Naked Lunch; I constructed this page to catapult readers off to other pages of my; choosing.; Page Index; A brief bio of myself.; Classes I am taking.;; CS 577.; CS 640.; The class I TA.;; CS 520.; Links relating to Computer Science..;; This is a site dedicated to;; smart clothing. Also,; Steve Mann's page has links to view what he is; currently seeing through his wearable camera.; This site has links and information on; Artificial Life; at the Santa Fe Institute. More specifically you can link to; an AL project called;; Tierra , by Thomas Ray.; Recent;; Dilbert Strips.; While technically not Computer Science, these;; math jokes had to be put somewhere.;; Links of a more philosophic/scientific/artistic nature..;;; Physics/Consciousness; . Say no more.; Survival Research Laboratories; has a site with info about the various destructive shows; put on by this organization.;; Arcosanti is an arcological site just outside of Phoenix.; The; Krishnamurti Foundation site tells a bit about this; 20th century philosopher.; This is a link to a various;; Beat Writers including the one pictured above.; This is a site filled with info about; Tom Waits .;; Links to various news sources..;; Packer news.;; New Scientist online. You have to register so they can; harass you through the mail, but you will be rewarded with; dozens of interesting factoids with which you may astound your; friends.; Scientific; American online takes advantage of hypertext in addition; to providing a selection of current articles from the print; edition.; Science News,; published weekly, contains smaller but more current articles.; The Hindu; is a national newspaper of India.; The Onion; Links of local interests..;; UW-Madison's; Astronomy Department Page and more specifically, the; Washburn Observatory. where the; public can view the universe from the lens of a; non-insignificant piece of the history of Astronomy; and Madison.; Madison Weather info can be obtained at the following sites:;; WebWeather.;; National Weather Service-Madison.;; Channel 15 News Weather.;; Channel 3 News Weather.; Other links of interest.;; This is the home page of the late;; Timothy Leary.; This has links to numerous articles written by the noted; optimist;; Noam Chomsky.; Disinformation; has a great listing of conspiracy theories buried within; their ultra-trendy web art.; Bad Movie; reviews.;; Back to UW-Madison CS Page.;;;"
"Brian Swander's Home Page;Brian Swander; If you think this is me . . .;Office:1345; Tel: 262-1012; Office Hours: 9:15-10:15 M, 1-2 R; My Bookmarks; Marks;"
"Ariel Tamches;Ari Tamches, Research Assistant;email: tamches@cs.wisc.edu; Ariel Tamches; Computer Sciences Department; 1210 West Dayton Street; Madison, WI 53706;typical pose (""huh?"");angry pose;I'm organizing the Fall 1996 Operating Systems & Networking Seminar here at UW-Madison.;Education:;M.S. Computer Sciences, UW-Madison; May, 1995.;B.S. Computer Science, UM College Park; May, 1993.;Office: 6366 CS&S;Research:;Paradyn Parallel Performance Tools;Status:;Searching for thesis topic (what else?);Interests:;Parallel performance tools;Parallel and distributed operating systems;Blues;The Simpsons;Seinfeld;Skiing;Skinet;Keystone (my favorite ski area);Snowboarder Jokes:;What is the difference between a snowboarder and a vacum cleaner? The way the dirt bag's attached!;How do snowboarders greet people? Whoa, sorry dude!;The difference between municipal bonds and snowboarders? Municipal bonds eventually mature and generate income.;Hates:;Country music;Fortran;Cool Links:;yahoo;espn;cpu info;skinet;Other Stuff:;Talk: Exokernel: An Operating System Architecture for;Application-Level Resource Management [October 9, 1995];CS 757 paper: Techniques and Tools for Distributed Shared Memory Performance Improvement[Spring, 1995] (with M. Callaghan);Talk: Supercomputer Interconnection Networks[April 19, 1995];Talk: The Zebra Striped Network File System;(or, Why You Need a Log-Structured File System if You Use RAID)[Oct 11, 1994];CS 736 paper: The Performance of Non-Blocking and Wait-free Highly Concurrent Objects in Asynchronous Shared-Memory Multiprocessors(dvi version, postscript version) [Spring, 1994];CS 752 paper: Analysis of RISC Instruction Set Enhancement [Fall, 1993];"
"/;CS 110 Sections 1&2 Home Page;CS 110 Introduction to Computer Programming;Sections 1&2 (FORTRAN);CS 110 is a one-credit course which covers the basic programming structures needed to prepare students for CS 310 and elementary engineering courses. No prior computer programming experience is required and only a basic knowledge of computers is assumed. The material covered will enable you to write simple computer programs to solve engineering problems in elementary courses. All programming is done in FORTRAN. This course is intended for students who received little or no programming instruction in high school.;This section is taught entirely in the FORTRAN programming language and is intended primarily for engineering students and non-computer science majors. Click here for a course description.;Menu; IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENTS - READ NOW!; Lectures; Instructor; Grading Policy; Syllabus; Text and Lecture Notes; Programming Assignments; Problem Solving Exercises; Computer Lab; Other Pointers of Interest; Lectures;Section 1: 455 Noland, 8:50 am MWF, September 4 to October 25;;Section 2: 455 Noland, 8:50 am MWF, October 28 to December 14;; Please be punctual to lectures to avoid disturbing the class.; Instructor - Jeff Lampert;Office:; Rm. 5364a Computer Science & Statistics, 1210 W. Dayton St.;Office Hours:; Wed 11:00-12:30, Thurs 2:30-4:00 or by appointment;Phone:; (608) 262-5105 [office]; (608) 283-0636 [home, emergencies only];E-mail:; tick@cs.wisc.edu (click here for finger);World-Wide-Web:; http://www.cs.wisc.edu/~tick/tick.html; Grading Policy;Your final grade is based on four programming assignments each worth 25% (not including Program #0). This course is Credit/No Credit only. There are no tests or exams.; 100% - Assignments (4 @ 24% each + 1 for 4%); Syllabus (tentative);The following topics and sections of the text will be approximately covered each week during the semester. You will only get the most out of this class if you read the relevant sections of the text before coming to class. This way you will be able to ask questions in class about anything that you are unsure of, instead of waiting until you're in the lab trying to work on an assignment to discover you didn't really understand something.;Weeks 1-8; Text and Lecture Notes;Text:;Fortran with Engineering Applications, 5th. edition, by E. Koffman and F. Friedman, 1993.;Lecture Notes:;Copies of the lecture notes will be available on-line at the end of each week of class. Important - the on-line lecture notes are not a substitute for coming to class. They do not include any examples or additional notes that I put on the board (except for Week1). You are responsible for all the material covered in class.;Week1;Week2; Programming Assignments;There are four programming assignments each contributing 25% to your final grade. You must attempt to complete every programming assignment. If you hand in a program that does not run or will not even compile without errors then it will get a very low mark (check the gradesheets) and you risk failing the course.;Gradesheets;What to do in DOS/Fortran (and how to hand in assignments online); Late Policy;Policy on Academic Misconduct (i.e. cheating);Assignment Specifications:;Program0, due Friday 11/1/96, 5:00pm; Program1, due Wednesday 11/13/96, 5:00pm;How to Get Help with Your Assignments:;Consultants:; The consultants in the computer lab can help you with most problems. They wear name tags and are on duty from approximately 8:00 am to 11:00 pm. Consultants can answer short questions about compiler error messages and program syntax, as well as how to login, use the printers, send E-mail, run Netscape, etc.;Click here for more information about the consultants.;;Instructor:; General questions about an assignment or questions that may require a long explanation are best answered by myself. Please see me during office hours or send me E-mail. I am not normally in my office except during office hours because I do my research from home via a modem. Therefore, if you want to see me outside of office hours please make an appointment first. You can most easily contact me by E-mail because I regularly login and read my E-mail from home. If you mail from Netscape, make sure to include your name and e-mail address, as they don't show up for me, so I won't know who mailed me and be able to respond otherwise.;Click here to send me E-mail.;; Problem Solving Exercises;One of the most important skills you will learn in this class is problem solving. Good problem solving skills distinguish a ""good"" computer programmer from a ""bad"" one - it doesn't matter how familiar or skilled you are in a particular programming language, if you do not understand how to solve the problem then you will not be able to write a computer program for it in any language.;To help you learn problem solving skills and techniques I will assign weekly problem solving exercises. These will be small but non-trivial problems which I will give out each Monday. You should look at the problem and think about it during the week and right down the steps you would go through to solve the problem; i.e. the overall structure of your program. This is primarily an exercise in general problem solving so you do not have to write any FORTRAN code (though you may if you want to and have time) and your solution/algorithm should not even be dependent on a particular programming language such as FORTRAN. We will go over the solution in class the following Monday.;Exercises:; Computer Lab;You will be using the Vectra lab in Rm. 1350 Computer Science & Statistics containing Hewlett-Packard Vectra's running Microsoft Windows and Microsoft FORTRAN. This lab is open from 7:00 am to 1:00 am seven days a week except certain holidays. The printer room is located across the hall in Rm. 1359. You have a quota of 300 pages on which; to print. Once you exceed that quota you must contact the lab either by e-mail or by going to room 2310 during office hours (they prefer e-mail) to pay to increase your quota.;Beware: Some of the machines in the Vectra lab aren't configured correctly. In particular, the machines along the wall closest to the outside;hallway, towards the left-hand part of the room. Try to avoid those if you can.;You may also use your home or dorm computers to write your programs, however you will probably have to purchase your own copy of Microsoft FORTRAN or Lahey Personal FORTRAN (see the inside cover of the textbook). You may also work in any of the other computer labs on campus, however most do not have FORTRAN compilers (please see me first before using the CAE lab).;The software you will be using in the lab includes:;Microsoft Windows and MS-DOS;E-mail;Netscape; Other Pointers of Interest; CS 110 Home Page; Jeff Lampert's Home Page; Computer Sciences Department Home Page; Starting Points for Internet Exploration; Lycos (search the World-Wide-Web by keyword);; Dilbert (comic relief for those long nights before an assignment is due);Copyright &copy 1996 Modified from Gareth S. Bestor (bestor@cs.wisc.edu). Last modified October 26, 1996.;"
"Jeff Lampert's Home Page;Jeff Lampert's Home Page;(in Ricardo Montalban voice): Welcome to my home page. Yes, I know that's not;a picture of me (at least, not on a good day), but I'm still looking for;one that's not too incriminating and one that doesn't make me look like a;convict. I do have my baby picture from my high school yearbook, but the last;time I showed that to someone I never heard the end of ""What a cute baby!"";Can't have someone thinking that, now can we? :);Well, I found a couple of pictures, but the Tick threatened to turn me into;a human Pez dispenser if I took his picture off, hence the pictures can be;found on a separate page by clicking here. For an;autographed copy, sign my name on the monitor on top of where the picture;appears ;);););Choose your link, Web-weasel!;I seek...PEZ!;(take 10 paces, turn, and click);Some Basic Facts;Who am i? Where am I? And who was that person I saw you with last night?;Academic and Work Related;What classes am I taking? What work am I doing in the Dept?;What's in my resume?;Entertainment;Books, Movies, Music, TV Programs, Newsgroups, and other important subjects;Friends;No, not the TV show (not a bad show, but I'm sick of the theme song);Hobbies, Clubs, and Organizations;Groups I was or am in, plus those I wish I were in;My Favorite Links;Ugh. Sounds like a song from The Sound of Music.;Tom Servo: Look, It's Julie Andrews! And she's on fire!;Crow: Good;(from MST3K);Eclectic Paraphenalia;I would say Miscellaneous, but that'd be too straight-forward; tick@cs.wisc.edu;"
"CS302 Homepage;CS302 Homepage;Welcome to the homepage for CS302. The purpose of this homepage is to;provide my students with information pertaining to our sections of CS302.;Since this page changes frequently, it is your responsibility;to check this page often.;General Information;Instructor: Todd Munson;Email: tmunson@cs.wisc.edu;Office: 1301 Computer Science and Statistics;Office Phone: (608) 262-6600;Office Hours: 1:00 - 2:00 PM MW, 1:00 - 2:00 PM R, 7:30 - 8:30 AM F,;and by appointment;Sections: 8 and 25;Textbook: Problem Solving with C++ by Walter Savitch;Class Information;Expectations;Syllabus;Exam Schedule;E-Mail;Grading;Late Assignments;Extra Credit;Policies;Consultant Responsibilities;Academic Misconduct;Other Information;Daily Notes and Assignments;Homework Assignments;Programs and Documents Used in Class;Other Programs and Resources;CS302 Homepage;tmunson@cs.wisc.edu;"
"Todd's Homepage;Todd's Homepage;In the fall of 1996, I will be teaching two sections of;CS302.;Since my area is mathematical programming, I will plug the;UW Mathematical;Programming pages which contain a wealth of information about mathematical;programming.;tmunson@cs.wisc.edu;"
"Brian's Home Page;Brian R. Toonen; Computer Sciences Department;University of Wisconsin;1210 W. Dayton Street;Madison, WI 53706;Office:;CS&ST 6613;Email:;toonen@cs.wisc.edu;Office Phone:;(608) 262-6613;Home Phone:;(608) 276-7871;Advisor:; David Wood; Table of Contents; Interests; Schedule for Summer 96; Publications; Something to think about; Interests; Professional: Computer architecture, operating systems,;compilers, high speed networks, distributed and parallel systems,;security and accountability, and high performance I/O; Personal: Bicycling, walking, hiking, camping, traveling,;billiards, darts, home brewing, cooking, computing, electronics, and;reading; Schedule;Monday:; 15:30-16:30 WWT meeting;Wednesday:; 13:30-14:30 Meeting with David; 15:30-16:30 BLZ/COW meeting;When, Where and Why; 08/09 - 08/10 Milwaukee - Brian and Heidi's wedding; 08/22 - 08/23 Madison - Computer Architecture Affiliates Meeting; 08/25 Chicago - Michalakes' Grill Based Viener Roast; Publications; Journal Articles; I. T. Foster, B. Toonen, and P. H. Worley,;Performance of Massively Parallel Computers for Spectral;Atmospheric Models, Jornal of Atmospheric and Oceanic;Technology, 13(5):1031-45, 1996. (228517 bytes); J. B. Drake, I. T. Foster, J. G. Michalakes, B. Toonen, and;P. H. Worley,;Design and Performance of a Scalable Parallel Community Climate;Model, Parallel Computing, December, 1995. (255024 bytes); Proceedings Papers; P. H. Worley, I. T. Foster, and B. Toonen, Algorithm;comparison and benchmarking using a parallel spectral transform;shallow water model, in Proccedings of the Sixth Workshop on;Parallel Processing in Meteorology, eds. G.-R. Hoffmann and N. Kreitz,;World Scientific, Singapore, 1995, pp. 277-289. (124793 bytes); J. B. Drake, I. T. Foster, J. J. Hack,; J. G. Michalakes, B. D. Semeraro, B. Toonen,; D. L. Williamson, and P. H. Worley,;PCCM2: A GCM adapted for scalable parallel computers,;in Proceedings of the Fifth Global Change Symposium,;American Meteorological Society, 1994, pp. 91-98.;(258657 bytes); I. T. Foster and B. Toonen, Load;balancing algorithms for climate models, in Proceedings of the;Scalable High Performance Computing Conference, eds. J. J. Dongarra;and D. W. Walker, IEEE Computer Society Press, 1994,;pp. 674-681. (607260 bytes); Technical Reports; P. H. Worley and B. Toonen, A;users' guide to PSTSWM, ORNL Technical Report ORNL/TM-12779,;July 1995. (232512 bytes); I. T. Foster and B. R. Toonen,;Load-Balancing Algorithms for the Parallel Community Climate;Model, ANL Technical Report ANL/MCS-TM-190, January 1995.;(180420 bytes); Poster Presentations; K. Dritz, I. Foster, M. Minkoff, P. Sutton, B. Toonen, Z. Wu,;R. Shepard, J. Tilson, A. Wagner, R. Harrison, R. Kendall, and;J. Nieplocha, Semidirect Hartree-Fock Calculations Using the;CHEMIO Library, 1995 Gordon Research Conference High-Performance;Computing and National Information Infrastructure, Plymouth, NH, July;16-21, 1995.; K. Dritz, I. Foster, M. Minkoff, R. Shepard, P. Sutton,;J. L. Tilson, B. Toonen, A. Wagner, and Z. Wu, Nondirect SCF;Calculations Using the CHEMIO Library, High Performance;Computational Chemistry Workshop, Pleasanton Hilton, Pleasanton,;California, August 13-16, 1995.;Something to think about...;The Earth does not belong to man, man belongs to the Earth.;All things are connected, like the blood that unites us all.;Man did not weave the web of life, he is but a strand in it;;whatever he does to the web, he does to himself.; -Chief Seattle;The man who sat on the ground in his tipi meditating on life and its;meaning, accepting the kinship of all creatures and acknowledging;unity with the universe of things, was infusing into his being the;true essence of civilization.; -Luther Standing Bear,; Oglala Sioux;Last Modified: Mon Aug 5 18:40:23 CDT 1996;"
Thanos Tsiolis' Home Page;This site is Netscape 2 enhanced. If you can read this you should;consider upgrading your browser to the latest version of Netscape. If;that is not an option for you try this page.;Old Home Page;
"CS302, Section 19;Computer Science 302, Section 19;Time: MWF 1:20;Place: 226 Noland;Instructor: Todd Turnidge;Office Hours: TBA;Lab Hours: TBA;Announcements;Class notes on classes.;A handout on structs is available.;Program 5 is available.;; Getting Started; There is some useful information here to read when you are getting started.; General Information; Text, Facilities, Grading, Policies.; Syllabus; A tentative syllabus for the course.; Assignments; The text of reading/programming assignments and some solutions.; Handouts; A collection of the class handouts to date.; The Class Mailing List; Information about how to send messages to me and to the class;as a whole.; Course Home Page; This is a home page for all sections of 302. There is much;information; here of general interest including information about; tutors,; consultants,; the windows operating system,; email,; netscape,; and C++.;; Other CS302 Sections; You may find some of the information provided by;other instructors to be helpful. For example, here is a handout from Gregory;Sharp about course difficulty.;Last modified: Mon Nov 4 11:43:36 1996 by Todd Turnidge;turnidge@cs.wisc.edu;"
"Todd Turnidge;Todd Douglas Turnidge;School;Computer Sciences Department;University of Wisconsin - Madison;1210 W. Dayton St.;Madison, WI 53706;(608) 262-6612;Home;1124 Milton St.;Madison, WI 53715;(608) 250-0699;I am a graduate student in the;Department of Computer Sciences;at the University of Wisconsin,;Madison. I have been here for two years. I am working with professor;Thomas Reps studying;programming languages.;I teach a section of cs302.;I hold a BS in Mathematics;and an MS in Computer;Science from Case Western Reserve;University, which is located in Cleveland,;Ohio.;I am originally from Kent, Ohio. My;family lives there.;They say you can judge a man by the company he keeps. Click here for enough evidence to put me away for a long time.;Some amusements for you.;Some shortcuts for me.;Last modified: Fri Oct 11 13:05:48 1996 by Todd Turnidge;turnidge@cs.wisc.edu;"
"Taxiao Wang's Home Page;Welcome to Taxiao Wang's Home Page; This page is under heavy construction.;;Click here to finger me.;Contact Information:; Taxiao Wang; Graduate Student/Teaching Assistant;Computer Science Department;University of Wisconsin-Madison; Office CS 3310 CS&S Bldg., 1210 W. Dayton Street;Madison, WI 53706-1685; Office Phone: (608)262-1721; Home Phone: (608)250-9867; E-mail: twang@cs.wisc.edu;Last Updated on June 26, 1996.;"
"Venkatesh Ganti's Home Page;Venkatesh Ganti ( vganti@cs.wisc.edu);Graduate Student;Office #1334,;;Computer Sciences Department,;1210, W. Dayton St.;MADISON, WI 53706, USA;Phone : (608)-262-6606.;Note: This page is under construction; Past and Present;; I am a graduate student in CS at the University of Wisconsin,Madison; from Fall 95. Earlier I had been an undergraduate student at; IIT Madras,India.; Native of Kakinada, Andhra Pradesh.;Info; ASHA(ASHA for basic education); ASHA-Madison;; India (click here to know more about India); Godav 95 homepage (my hostel at IIT Madras); Godav 95 yearbook (hope to get this online sometime); Research;I am interested in Databases.Most of my work till now(my BTech project) has;been in Real-time databases. Want to have a look at it ?;Real-time genesis .;UW-Madison DB Group homepage;That is all for now.;Last Updated : January 1st, 1996;"
"Vijay's Home Page; T.N. Vijaykumar (vijay@cs.wisc.edu);;Professional:; Affiliation: Computer Sciences Department, University of Wisconsin-Madison; Contact:;Address: Computer Sciences Department, 1210 W. Dayton Street, Madison, WI 53706;Phone: 608-262-6587, Fax: 608-262-9777, Email: vijay@cs.wisc.edu; Advisor: Guri Sohi; Project: The Multiscalar Project;Education:;Doctorate: University of Wisconsin-Madison , August 1997;Undergraduate:;Birla Institute of Technology and Science, Pilani, India, 1990;Research:;Compiling for the Multiscalar Architecture (Ph.D. Dissertation); Distributed Register File Design;The Anatomy of the Register File in a Multiscalar Processor,;S. Breach, T. N. Vijaykumar, and G. S. Sohi,;27th Annual International Symposium on Microarchitecture (MICRO-27), 1994.; Compiling Register Communication;Register Communication Strategies for the Multiscalar Architecture;S. Breach, T. N. Vijaykumar, and G. S. Sohi,;Submitted to 29th Annual International Symposium on Microarchitecture (MICRO-29), 1996.; Multiscalar Processors;Multiscalar Processors,;G. S. Sohi, S. Breach, and T. N. Vijaykumar,;22th International Symposium on Computer Architecture, 1995.; Scheduling Register Communication;Compiling Register Communication for the Multiscalar Architecture;T. N. Vijaykumar, and G. S. Sohi,;On going work.; Memory Data Dependence Prediction;Personal:; My other side !;;"
"John Watrous' Home Page;John Watrous;(watrous@cs.wisc.edu );Computer Sciences Department;University of Wisconsin - Madison;1210 W. Dayton Street;Madison, WI 53706;Telephone: (608) 262-6628; Publications; John Watrous,;On One-Dimensional Quantum Cellular Automata,;Proc. 36th Ann. Symp. Foundations of Computer Science;(1995), 528-537.; John Watrous,;A Polynomial-Time Algorithm for the Artin-Whaples Approximation Theorem,;Number Theory: Fourth Conference of the Canadian;Number Theory Association (1995), 397-407.; Assorted Links; Quantum Computation Links;Quantum Computation Archive (Stanford);Quantum Information Home Page (Oxford);Particle Beam Physics Laboratory Quantum Information Page (UCLA);Laboratory for Theoretical & Quantum Computing (Montreal);LANL Preprints; Bibliographies;Computer Science Bibliographies;Hypertext Bibliography Project;Hypatia; General Reference;Elements of Style;Hypertext Webster Interface;Roget's Thesaurus; Random Links;Parasol Records;PlayStation Links;Weather Forecast for Madison;The Isthmus Daily Page;Mathematical Quotation Server;Mathematician Biographies;Geek Site of the Day;"
"CS302, Sections 16 and 17;CS302, Sections 16 and 17;Algebraic Language Programming in C++; Announcements as of Tue Oct 8 20:10:25 1996;Exam #1: Thursday, Oct. 17, 715-915pm, 121 Psych;RELOAD THIS PAGE EVERY TIME YOU LOGIN.;Instructor: Chris Weaver;Email:;weaver@cs.wisc.edu; (and my email policy);Office: Computer Science and Statistics 1302;Office Phone: (608)262-6600;Office Hours: MW 400-500, R 400-600, and by appointment;(Office hours in the lab, 1350 CS, for the first two weeks.);Grader: Jin Zhang;Email:;zj@cs.wisc.edu;Office: Computer Science and Statistics 1345;Office Phone: (608)262-1012;Location;Section 16: 955-1045 MWF in 119 Noland;Section 17: 1100-1150 MWF in 119 Noland;Computer (Vectra) lab; in 1350 Computer Science and Statistics; (Hours: 7am-1am seven days a week, staffed by;; consultants);General Course Info;Syllabus;Text:; Problem Solving with C++: The Object of Programming,; Walter Savitch,; Addison-Wesley, 1996.; (ISBN 0-8053-7440-X); Includes errata and source code from the text.; Misconduct Policy;Assignments, Grading, and Handouts;Programming assignments; Homework (Reading) Assignments;Lecture Notes;Handouts and; Example Programs;Exam and Quiz Keys;Late Policy;Grading Policy;Style Guidelines (still rough); Printing and Paper Use Statement;Chris Weaver,; Computer Sciences Department,; University of Wisconsin-Madison;Last Change: 11/1/96 by Chris Weaver;"
"Chris Weaver, Studentis Graduatus;Chris Weaver;Email:;weaver@cs.wisc.edu;Office:;1302 Computer Science;;Office Phone:;(608)262-6600;;Office Hours:;MW 400-500, R 400-600,and by appointment;;Studentis Graduatus (Common Fool);Classes;CS640; Introduction to Computer Networks;Landweber;800-915 MWF; 1221 CS;;CS739; Distributed Systems;Cao;100-215 MW; 1263 CS;;Teaching;CS302;Algebraic Language Programming in C++;;Section 16;955-1045 MWF; 119 Noland;;Section 17;1100-1150 MWF; 119 Noland;;Office Hours; MW 400-500, R 400-600,and by appt.; 1302 CS;;Other;Please Don't Feed the Grad Students;EvangeList;Moonlighting in the DoIT Showroom;Biographical information;Chris Weaver,; Computer Sciences Department,; University of Wisconsin-Madison;Last Change: 11/1/96 by Chris Weaver;"
"Weiru's Home Page; W eiru's home page;Send me an;email, pppplease!;Find out if I am around;;"" Sometimes I think all the English speakers should be committed to;an asylum for the verbally insane. In what language do people recite at;a play and play at a recital? Ship by truck and send cargo by ship? Have;noses that run and feet that smell?""; -- Richard Lederer; "" There are three possible parts to a date, of which at least two must be;offered: entertainment, food, and affection. It is customary to begin;a series of dates with a great deal of entertainment, a moderate amount;of food, and the merest suggestion of affection. As the amount of;affection increases, the entertainment can be reduced proportionately.;When the affection IS the entertainment, we no longer call it dating.;Under no circumstances can the food be omitted.""; -- Miss Manners' Guide to Excruciatingly Correct Behaviour;; The universities I've been to; Peking University; my friends from Physics Department 88 and Alumni Association at;Madison; This is the university I am at now.;; World of little grey cells; cs739; cs737; picture from; the universe; The Game of Go;; Entertainment and Art; Late Show With; David Letterman; and other; CBS shows;; Universal Studios; Wish to send a;postcard to someone?; Movie World and; Movie Reviews; My favorite hockey player; Steve;; Francais; Dictionnaire;Francais-Anglais; Dictionnaire; Softwares Relatifs a la;Francophonie; Test de;grammaire Francaise; Web French lessons;;; Weather forecast; for; Madison;; Last Updated On: Tue Feb 20 10:44:28 CST 1996;"
"Welcome to Wei Zhang's Home Page; I'm a first year graduate student of CS Department. My hometown is Shanghai, People's Republic of China.;Education:;1996-????(?) MS/Ph.D. student in Department of Computer Science, University of Wisconsin,Madison.;1990-1994 BS (NOT the other BS) of Computer Science, San Jose State University, San Jose, California;1988-1989 Department of Computer Science and Technology, Tsinghua University, Beijing, People's Republic of China;Email: weiz@cs.wisc.edu;Working Experience;Contractor 01/1996 - 08/1996;Developing various information management system on different platforms.;The platforms included WindowsNT, Solaris and HP-UX.;Technologies used included OLE, Tuxedo and Pathway RSC.;Software Designer, Tandem Computers Corporation 06/95 - 12/95;Software Engineer, Sherpa Corporation 07/93 - 05/95;System Operator, NASA AMES Research Center 01/93 - 12/93;Hobbies;Ma Jiang;Bridge, the card game;Table Tennis (Not Pingpong);Jogging;The Ultimate Challenge;Solve the Mine-Sweeper expert level puzzle within 60 seconds, WITHOUT cheating.;Quote of the Day;The best memory management is no memory management.;Ackowledgement;This home page is written using the framework provided by Qi Jin.;"
"Kent Wenger's Home Page; Welcome to Kent Wenger's home page!;Note: this page is definitely still under construction, so be prepared;for some potholes!;(I need to get a picture of myself scanned in to put here...);R. Kent Wenger;Associate Researcher;Computer Sciences Department;University of Wisconsin;1210 West Dayton Street;Madison, WI 53706-1685;telephone: 608/262-6623;fax: 608/262-9777;email: wenger@cs.wisc.edu;Finger me.;Work;The main projects I'm working on are;COD (Clusters of Data providers) and;DEVise (Data Exploration and;Visualization). Coming up with a good acronym is one of the most important;parts of a project, wouldn't you agree?;Here's a visualization;produced by the DEVise software.;The people I work for:;Yannis Ioannidis; Miron Livny;Raghu Ramakrishnan;More information about the University of Wisconsin:;UW-Madison DBMS Research Group;UW-Madison Computer Sciences home page;WiscINFO (UW-Madison home page);Personal;Links;Images;Last updated Nov. 15, 1996.;"
"Wisconsin Wind Tunnel Project Home Page;Wisconsin Wind Tunnel Project;Most future massively-parallel computers will be built from;workstation-like nodes and programmed in high-level parallel;languages--like HPF--that support a shared address space in which;processes uniformly reference data.;The Wisconsin Wind Tunnel (WWT) Project seeks to develop a consensus about;the middle-level interface--below languages and compilers and above;system software and hardware. Our first proposed interface was;Cooperative Shared Memory, which is an evolutionary extension to;conventional shared-memory software and hardware. Recently, we have;been working on a more revolutionary interface called;Tempest.;Tempest provides the mechanisms that allow programmers, compilers, and;program libraries to implement and use message passing, transparent;shared memory, and hybrid combinations of the two. We are developing;implementations of Tempest on a Thinking Machines CM-5, a cluster of;workstations (Wisconsin;COW), and a hypothetical hardware platform. One approach on COW;uses bus snooping logic, implemented with;FPGAs and SRAM.;We are collaborating;with the;Wisconsin Paradyn Project to adapt their performance tools to Tempest.; Overview;and Annotated Bibliography; Slides from an Overview Talk (November 1995);with one slide per page;or four slides per page; Complete Technical Papers; Contributors; Funding Sources; Origin of Project Name; Wisconsin Week Article on WWT & Paradyn; Related Projects;;Wisconsin CS's Computer Architecture Group; Computer Sciences Department;at the University of Wisconsin;;World-Wide Computer Architecture Information; Last Updated: 6 July 1995 by Mark D. Hill (markhill@cs.wisc.edu);"
"Yannis Ioannidis;Yannis E. Ioannidis;yannis@cs.wisc.edu;Research Interests;Database management systems, scientific databases, user interfaces and;information visualization, complex query optimization,;heterogeneous databases.;My research primarily focuses on two areas of database systems:;optimization of complex queries and database support for scientific;data.;Future database applications pose several new challenges to;query optimization.;The complexity of queries asked will be significantly higher than;in traditional systems.;The number of alternative evaluation algorithms will be much higher;as well, especially with the use of parallelism or with attempts to;optimize for several values of run-time parameters (parametric query;optimization).;Thus, the number of alternative access plan for processing a query;will be extremely large, so that the currently used algorithms;for finding the optimum among them will be inadequate.;My research investigates the use of randomized optimization algorithms;as a viable solution to this problem.;I am primarily interested in simulated annealing and genetic algorithms,;as well as other alternatives that take advantage of special properties;of query optimization.;I am also looking into complex query scheduling problems, especially;those that arise in parallel and multimedia environments.;Error propagation of size and cost estimates in complex queries are also;part of my studies, where I am trying to identify the appropriate;information that must be maintained by a database system to limit the;propagation of error.;To that end, I'm primarily focusing on identifying the properties of;optimal histograms that approximate the distribution of values in;relation attributes.;The computational mode of investigation is expected to be part of many;experiments in various scientific disciplines in the future.;The databases to be generated need specialized support on many aspects;that current technology is not ready to provide.;I am involved in the development of the {\it ZOO Desktop Experiment Management;Environment} that will help scientists throughout the life cycle of their;experimental studies.;A primary component of that system will be a database system.;Two major issues that my work addresses are visual user interfaces and;semantic heterogeneity.;In the former, I'm concentrating on identifying what the right metaphors are;for representing complex database schemas, queries, and objects to scientists;so that they are natural to them, and also on investigating the power of;{\it dynamic visual queries};In the latter, I'm concentrating on developing visual tools that will facilitate;translation and integration of different data formats or schemas.;Although these issues are generic and arise in all experimental;scientific disciplines, my efforts are guided by the needs of specific;projects with which I am associated, in particular, simulation-based;performance studies of computer systems, simulation-based modeling of plant;growth, NMR spectroscopy, DNA sequencing, and microscopic imaging.;Recent Publications;Y. Ioannidis, ""Query Optimization"", ACM Computing Surveys, symposium issue;on the 50th Anniversary of ACM, Vol. 28, No. 1, March 1996, pp. 121-123.;M. Garofalakis and Y. Ioannidis, ""Scheduling Issues in Multimedia Query;Optimization"", ACM Computing Surveys, symposium issue on Multimedia;Systems, Vol. 27, No. 4, December 1995, pp. 590-592.;Y. Ioannidis and R. Ramakrishnan, ""Containment of Conjunctive Queries: Beyond;Relations As Sets"", ACM Transactions on Database Systems (TODS), Vol. 20,;No. 3, September 1995, pp. 288-324.;E. Haber, Y. Ioannidis, and M. Livny, ""Foundations of Visual Metaphors for;Schema Display"", Journal of Intelligent Information Systems, Vol. 3,;No. 3/4, July 1994, pp. 263-298. (Special issue on Visual Information Systems.);Y. Ioannidis and M. Tsangaris, ""The Design, Implementation, and Performance;Evaluation of BERMUDA"", IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering;(TKDE), Vol. 6, No. 1, February 1994, pp. 38-56.;R. Miller, Y. Ioannidis, and R. Ramakrishnan, ""Translation and Integration of;Heterogeneous Schemas: Bridging the Gap between Theory and Practice"",;Information Systems, Vol. 19, No. 1, January 1994, pp. 3-31.;Y. Ioannidis and S. Christodoulakis, ""Optimal Histograms for Limiting;Worst-Case Error Propagation in the Size of Join Results"",;ACM Transactions on Database Systems (TODS), Vol. 18, No. 4,;December 1993, pp. 709-748.;Y. Ioannidis, R. Ramakrishnan, and L. Winger, ""Transitive Closure Algorithms;Based on Graph Traversal"", ACM Transactions on;Database Systems (TODS), Vol. 18, No. 3, September 1993, pp. 512-576.;Y. Ioannidis, ""Dynamic Information Visualization"",;ACM Sigmod Record, Vol. 24, No. 4, December 1996.;Y. Ioannidis and V. Poosala, ""Histogram-Based Solutions to Diverse Database;Estimation Problems"", IEEE Data Engineering, Vol. 18, No. 3, September;1995, pp. 10-18.;Y. Ioannidis, M. Livny, S. Gupta, and N. Ponnekanti, ""ZOO: A Desktop Experiment;Management Environment"", Proc. 22nd International VLDB Conference, Bombay,;India, September 1996, pp. 274-285.;V. Poosala and Y. Ioannidis, ""Estimation of Query-Result Distribution and its;Application in Parallel-Join Load Balancing"", Proc. 22nd International VLDB;Conference, Bombay, India, September 1996, pp. 448-459.;V. Anjur, Y. Ioannidis, and M. Livny, ""Frog and Turtle: Visual Bridges;Between Files and Object-Oriented Data"", Proc. 8th International Conference;on Scientific and Statistical Database Management, Stockholm, Sweden, June;1996, pp. 76-85.;M. Garofalakis and Y. Ioannidis, ""Multi-Dimensional Resource Scheduling for;Parallel Queries"", Proc. 1996 International ACM SIGMOD Conference,;Montreal, Canada, May 1996, pp. 365-376.;V. Poosala, Y. Ioannidis, P. Haas, and E. Shekita, ""Improved Histograms for;Selectivity Estimation of Range Predicates"", Proc. 1996 International;ACM SIGMOD Conference, Montreal, Canada, May 1996, pp. 294-305.;Y. Ioannidis, M. Livny, J. Bao, and E. Haber, ""User-Oriented Visual Layout;at Multiple Granularities"", Proc. 3nd International Workshop on Advanced;Visual Interfaces, Gubbio, Italy, May 1996, pp. 184-193.;E. Haber, Y. Ioannidis, and M. Livny, ""OPOSSUM: Desk-Top Schema Management;through Customizable Visualization"", Proc. 21st International VLDB;Conference, Zurich, Switzerland, September 1995, pp. 527-538.;Y. Ioannidis and V. Poosala, ""Balancing Histogram Optimality and Practicality;for Query Result Size Estimation"", Proc. 1995 International ACM SIGMOD;Conference\fP, San Jose, CA, May 1995, pp. 233-244.;O. Tsatalos, M. Solomon, and Y. Ioannidis, ""The GMAP: A Versatile Tool for;Physical Data Independence"", Proc. 20th International VLDB;Conference, Santiago, Chile, September 1994.;O. Tsatalos and Y. Ioannidis, ""A Unified Framework for Indexing in Database;Systems"", Proc. 4th International DEXA Conference, Athens, Greece, September;1994.;Y. Ioannidis and M. Lashkari, ""Incomplete Path Expressions and their;Disambiguation"", Proc. 1994 International ACM SIGMOD Conference,;Minneapolis, MN, May 1994, pp. 138-149.;E. Haber, Y. Ioannidis, and M. Livny, ""OPOSSUM: A Flexible Schema;Visualization and Editing Tool"", Proc. 1994 ACM CHI Conference, Boston, MA, April;1994.;R. Miller, Y. Ioannidis, and R. Ramakrishnan, ""Translation and Integration of;Heterogeneous Schemas: Bridging the Gap between Theory and Practice"",;Proc. 4th International EDBT Conference, Cambridge, England, March 1994,;pp. 73-80.;Y. Ioannidis, ""Universality of Serial Histograms"", Proc. 19th International;VLDB Conference, Dublin, Ireland, August 1993, pp. 256-267.;R. Miller, Y. Ioannidis, and R. Ramakrishnan, ""The Use of Information Capacity;in Schema Integration and Translation"", Proc. 19th International VLDB;Conference, Dublin, Ireland, August 1993, pp. 120-133.;J. Wiener and Y. Ioannidis, ""A Moose and a Fox Can Aid Scientists with;Data Management Problems"", Proc. 4th International Workshop on;Database Programming Languages, New York, NY, August 1993.;"
"Tian Zhang's Home Page;;Tian Zhang; General Information;Ph.D. Student and Research Assistant;Advisor: Prof. Raghu Ramakrishnan and Prof. Miron Livny (joint);Major Concentrations: Database, Artificial Intelligence, Compiler;Minor: Financial Investment and Banking;Office: Room 7358; Computer Sciences Dept.; Univ. of Wisconsin - Madison; Madison , Wisconsin 53706-1685;E-mail: zhang@cs.wisc.edu;Office Telephone: (608) 262-6623;Home Telephone+Fax+Ans : (608) 238-7168;Department Fax: (608) 262-9777; Research Interests;There is a growing need for exploratory analysis of very large datasets;to discover useful patterns, and data mining is the new territory;developed for this purpose.;I am very interested in designing new efficient data mining algorithms or;tools for very large databases by integrating the techniques of;databases, artificial intelligence and statistics.;My Ph.D thesis topic is on clustering and density;analysis of very large datasets. That is, given a very large;multi-dimensional dataset, and a limited amount of resources;(e.g., running time and memory), design and implement algorithms;to efficiently and accurately (1) identify the sparse and crowded regions;(clustering analysis), (2) estimate the density function of the overall;data distribution (density analysis). They are very important and practical;branches of data mining, and can be applied to many domains such as, data;classification, image compression and pattern recognition.; Recent Research Project; BIRCH: An Efficient Data Clustering and Density Analysis System for Very Large Databases.; Selected Publications; Data Clustering System BIRCH and Its Applications (Tian Zhang, Raghu Ramakrishnan, Miron Livny),;submitted to Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery Journal, June, 1996, U.S.A.; BIRCH: An Efficient Data Clustering Method for Very Large Databases (Tian Zhang, Raghu Ramakrishnan, Miron Livny),;in Proc. of ACM SIGMOD Int'l Conf. on Data Management,;June 1996, Canada.; Interactive Classification of Very Large Datasets with BIRCH (Tian Zhang, Raghu Ramakrishnan, Miron Livny),;in Proc. of Workshop on Research Issues on Data Mining and Knowledge;Discovery (in cooperation with ACM-SIGMOD'96), June 1996, Canada.; Fast Density and Probability Estimations Using CF-Kernel Method for Very Large Databases;(Miron Livny, Raghu Ramakrishnan, Tian Zhang),;Technical Report, July, 1996.;Motion Planning of Multi-joint Robotic Arm with Topological Dimension;Reduction Method;(Bo Zhang, Ling Zhang, Tian Zhang),;in Proc. of 11th. Int'l Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence;(IJCAI'89), Aug. 1989, U.S.A.;A Findpath Algorithm for a Manipulator by Finite Division of Configuration Space;(Bo Zhang, Jianwei Zhang, Ling Zhang, and Tian Zhang),;in Robotics and manufacturing: recent trends in research, education,;and applications: Proc's of Int'l Symposium on Robotics and;Manufacturing: Research, Education, and Applications, v.2, 1988, U.S.A.;Motion Planning for Robots with Topological Dimension Reduction Method;(Bo Zhang, Tian Zhang, Jianwei Zhang, and Ling Zhang),;in Journal of Computer Science and Technology, v.5, no.1, Jan. 1990, P.R.C.;Finding Collision-Free Paths for Mobile Robots;(Tian Zhang, and Bo Zhang),;in Proc. of 1st. Int'l Symposium for Young Computer Professionals,;Aug. 1989, Beijing, P.R.C.; Relevant Links; Technical Documents; Journals, Conferences, Organizations; Beijing, China; Other Interests; Last Updated: Sep. 26, 1996;"
"Yihong's Home Page; ZHAO YIHONG (zhao@cs.wisc.edu);Research Assistant;Department of Computer Sciences;University of Wisconsin - Madison;1210 West Dayton Street;Madison, WI 53706 USA; Adviser Prof. Jeff Naughton;Research Interests; Parallel Object-relational DBMS; On-line Analytical Processing (OLAP); Data Mining on Financial data; DBMS Benchmark;Education;B.S. University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill;M.S. UW-Madison Fall 1994;Research Related Sites;;Wiscosin DB Group; ACM SIGMOD; IBM Data Mining; U of Maryland Data;Mining; MicroStrategy's ROLAP; Arbor's MOLAP;Stocks and Financial Sites; Lombard Graph Server; PathFinder Server; Kiwi Club Server; CNN FN;Daily News Sites; PATHFINDER; USA Today; CNN FN; Money Daily; Chinese; Taiwan News;Web Search Engines; The Lycos 250; Excite.com; Yahoo; DEC; Surfing the Web;.1;.3;.5;.7;.9; -|-; terse; std; detail; Comments?; PGMOS;"
"Zhichen Xu's Home Page; ZHICHEN XU;Department of Computer Sciences;1210 W. Dayton St. #5388;Madison, WI 53706;Office phone: (608) 262-2542;Research Assistant;Advisors:;Professor James R. Larus;Professor Barton P. Miller;Award;Best Paper Award 9th ACM International Conference on Supercomputing,;ACM Press, July, 1995.;My research interest is in the area of;programming languages and performance issues in parallel and;distributed systems.;Recently, I have been studying techniques to detect and eliminate;performance bottlenecks in Distributed Shared-Memory Systems.;I have combined the; Paradyn Performance Tool;with Blizzard of the Wisconsin;Wind Tunnel on both the Thinking Machine CM-5 and;the Cluster of Workstations (COW).; Recent Publications;Fields of Interest;Programming languages.;Environments and Tools for Parallel;and Distributed Computing.;Network Computing .;Parallel and Distributed Operating System .;Computer Architecture;Performance Evaluation and Benchmarks;Places where I have studied and worked:;;High Performance Computing and Software Laboratory at;the University of Texas at San Antonio,;where I have studied and published in the area of;parallel performance predictions, modeling and simulations.; Computer Sciences Department;at Fudan University,;where I have participated in several National key projects of P.R. China,;in the area of software development environment, very high-level;programming languages, and object-oriented technologies, and;imcremental compilation techniques.;Click here for a postscript version of my cv,;and here is a HTML version.; Interesting links; Asplos7 program;Journals;Conferences;Compilers;\ Programming Language Research;Chinese Novels;;Friends from Fudan;;Java API;"
"Jin Zhang's Home Page; Hello! My name is Zhang, Jin (�Ž�); This picture was taken when I was invited to have supper in the;11th restaurant of Tsinghua University by; Chen Weihai;and Wang Tong; University of Wisconsin-Madison; Department of Computer Sciences; 1210 West Dayton Street, #1345; Madison, Wisconsin 53706;"
"ECE/CS 752 Spring 1996;ECE/CS 752: Advanced Computer Architecture I;Spring 1996 Offering;; Course Information; Instructor: Prof. James E. Smith;Office: 4621 Engineering Hall;Office hours: 2:30-3:30PM, Tues. and Thurs.;Office phone: 265-5737;Email: jes@ece.wisc.edu; TA: Dan Prince;Office: 3614 Engineering Hall;Office hours: 2:00-3:00PM Wed; 1:00-2:00PM Fri;Office phone: 265-3825;E-mail address: princed@cae.wisc.edu; Table of Contents; News; Readings; Lecture Notes; Homeworks; Project; Miscellaneous;News; Homework 5 solns 5/10; Special Office hours: 10-11:30AM Fri. May 10; FINAL EXAM: Rm 132 Biochemistry, Sun. May 12, 12:25 PM;Readings;; Readings 1 Table of Contents (get full papers from DoIT);; Readings 2 Table of Contents (get full papers from DoIT);; Readings 3 Table of Contents (get full papers from DoIT);; Readings 4 Table of Contents (get full papers from DoIT); Lecture Notes;; Course Overview and Introduction to Computer Architecture;; Performance and Cost;; Instruction Sets;; Pipelining;; Advanced Pipelining, part 1;; Advanced Pipelining, part 2;; Vectors and VLIW;; ILP limits and software;; Cache Memories;; Advanced Caches;; Advanced Caches (BIG);; Main Memory;; Main Memory (BIG);; I/O systems;; Disk arrays;; I/O and disk arrays (BIG);; Interconnect technology;; Interconnect technology (BIG);; ATM networks;; ATM networks (BIG);; Multiprocessors part 1;; Multiprocessors part 1 (BIG);; Multiprocessors part 2;; Multiprocessors part 2 (BIG);Homeworks;; Homework 1 assignment;; Homework 1 solution;; Homework 2 assignment;; Homework 2 solution;; Homework 3 assignment;; Note on Homework 3;; Homework 3 solution;; Homework 4 assignment;; Homework 4 solution;; Homework 5 assignment;; Homework 5 solution;Project;; Project Assignment;; Trace information;; Project list;Miscellaneous;; Some useful tools for projects;; Review for Midterm;; Midterm Exam from 1995;; SPECmarks Considered Harmful;; An Analysis of Pipeline Clocking;; Detailed Design of Reservation Station;; 757 lecture: Network Routing;; 757 lecture: Network Routing (BIG);; Cache Summary;; Final Exam from 1995;"
"Saluja, Kewal K.;College of EngineeringUniversity of Wisconsin - Madison;Kewal K. Saluja;Professor;4611 Engineering Hall;1415 Engineering Drive;Madison, WI 53706;Tel: 608-262-6490;Fax:;E-mail: saluja@engr.wisc.edu;Portrait: 9K JPG;Departments;Electrical and Computer Engineering;Computer Science;Education;PhD 1973, University of Iowa;;Research Interests;design for testability, computer architecture, data compression, integrated circuits (VLSI), fault-tolerant computing;;My general area of research interest is test generation and testable;and reliable design of digital systems. To carry out research in this;area we make extensive use of VLSI CAD and analysis tools. The;research involves modeling of faults, designing digital circuits, test;generation, design modification for enhancing testability, built-in;self-testing designs, fabrication of circuits and test application.;;We are investigating techniques to make the test generation and;fault simulation process efficient for both combinational and;sequential circuits. Data compression and compaction methods;applicable in design for testability and built-in self-test;environment are being investigated.;;In the area of built-in self-test we are concentrating on regular;structures such as programmable logic arrays and RAMs. We are;investigating self-test algorithms which can be implemented in;hardware with little performance and area penalty. In another project;we are investigating ways to use built-in self-test hardware to test a;system while it is performing its normal operation. The goal is that;the system is tested continuously as it operates with little or no;impact on system performance.;;Much of our work is performed using facilities of the VLSI digital;system laboratory. The laboratory houses a number of SUN stations with;color monitors and terminals for programming and design.;[ UW | COE | Depts | Centers | Consortia | Services | Fountain ];[ Index | Search | Mail | What's New | Credits | Help ];Last Modified: Friday, 03-May-96 16:26:43 CDT;This page is best viewed by browsers that support TABLES.;All photographs © 1996 College of Engineering.;Address comments to webmaster@engr.wisc.edu;Update Profile;"
"Duffie, Neil A.;College of EngineeringUniversity of Wisconsin - Madison;Neil A. Duffie;Professor;407 Engineering Research Building;1500 Engineering Drive;Madison, WI 53706;Tel: 608-262-9457;Fax: 608-262-9458;E-mail: duffie@engr.wisc.edu;Portrait: 45K JPG;Departments;Mechanical Engineering;Education;BS, 1972, University of Wisconsin-Madison;MS, 1974, University of Wisconsin-Madison;PhD, 1980, University of Wisconsin-Madison;Research Interests;robotics, computer control, manufacturing systems, precision engr., computer-integrated manufacturing, micromechanisms;Centers and Consortia;Manufacturing Systems Engineering Program;Wisconsin Center for Space Automation and Robotics;Professor Duffie's research in manufacturing systems involves integrating;sensors, actuators, computers and data bases into advanced automated;production systems. He has developed controls for self-guided inspection;machines and welding robots, high-performance material handling systems,;and automated finishing systems for mold and die production and rework. He;is studying highly distributed, non-hierarchical system control architectures;in hope of reducing cost and complexity in large-scale, computer-controlled;manufacturing systems while increasing flexibility and fault tolerance.;Duffie has constructed several experimental manufacturing systems;that incorporate real-time, fully distributed scheduling and optimization;into their control systems. He is developing theories explaining the properties;and performance of these systems.;Duffie is associate director of the;Wisconsin Center for Space Automation and Robotics. Research at the NASA-funded;center emphasizes automated agriculture systems, sensors for tactile feedback; to human operators in telerobotic systems, and methods for performance;evaluation, as well as human factors research in sensory feedback and fatigue.;He has developed a telerobotics test bed in which experimental work is;carried out.;Duffie works closely with manufacturing and aerospace industries and teaches;courses on manufacturing systems, automatic controls and computer controls.;He co-authored Computer Control of Machines and Processes.;[ UW | COE | Depts | Centers | Consortia | Services | Fountain ];[ Index | Search | Mail | What's New | Credits | Help ];Last Modified: Tuesday, 08-Oct-96 09:53:37 CDT;This page is best viewed by browsers that support TABLES.;All photographs © 1996 College of Engineering.;Address comments to webmaster@engr.wisc.edu;Update Profile;"
"Shapiro, Vadim;College of EngineeringUniversity of Wisconsin - Madison;Vadim Shapiro;Assistant Professor;355 Mechanical Engineering;1513 University Avenue;Madison, WI 53706;Tel: 608-262-3591;Fax: 608-265-2316;E-mail: vshapiro@engr.wisc.edu;Portrait: 46K JPG;URL: http://sal-cnc.me.wisc.edu;Departments;Computer Science;Mechanical Engineering;Education;BA 1981, New York University;MS 1983, University of California, Los Angeles;MS 1989, Cornell University;PhD 1991, Cornell Univeristy;Research Interests;computer-aided design and manufacturing, applied computational geometry, geometric and solid modeling, physical modeling, analysis and simulation, design and production automation;Centers and Consortia;Mathematics and Computation in Engineering Graduate Program;Manufacturing Systems Engineering Program;Spatial Automation Laboratory;Selected Awards and Honors;National Science Foundation CAREER Award, 1995;General Motors Fellow, 1986-1990;Selected Publications;""Maintenance of geometric representations through space decompositions,"" International Journal on Computational Geometry and Applications, 1995.;""Chain models of physical behavior for engineering analysis and design,"" Research in Engineering Design, Vol.5, No. 3, April 1994 (with R. S. Palmer).;""Real functions for representation of rigid solids,""Computer-Aided Geometric Design, Vol. 11, No. 2, April 1994. ""Separation for boundary to CSG conversion,"" ACM Transactions on Graphics, January 1993 (with D. L. Vossler).;Professor Shapiro's research interests center on relationships between;geometry and physical phenomena, so that mechanical artifacts can be;modeled, represented, analyzed, manipulated, designed, and manufactured;based on computer representations and algorithms.;Some specific ongoing projects include:;Geometric Modeling:;Ability to create, convert between, and to maintain consistency of;distinct representations of mechanical parts is a major technological;barrier that undermines the usefulness and reliability of commercial;geometric modeling systems. Current research efforts focus on eliminating;ambiguity in communicating engineering specifications, formal modeling of;parametric families of mechanical parts, and investigating novel methods;and computational techniques in support of design and manufacturing.;Mechanical Design:;Today mechanical forms, functions, and fabrication processes cannot be;described combinatorially, in terms of discrete, simple, and interacting;primitives; this apparent lack of combinatorial structure is a;major roadblock for competitive design and manufacturing of mechanical systems.;In collaboration with industry, the present research deals with;theoretical, practical, and computational aspects of mechanical design;and seeks to establish a formal basis for making mechanical design and;manufacturing of parts more systematic and competitive, and for smooth;integration of mechanical form modeling with other engineering activities.;Physical Modeling:;Geometric models contain only part of the information needed to capture the;desired physical behavior of an artifact, and the processes used to;manufacture it. Recent study of algebraic topological models (so called;""chain models"") of physical behavior suggests that it may be possible to;unify physical and geometric modeling and thus facilitate development of;new computer-aided engineering tools. Current investigations use these;and other models of physical behavior to develop new engineering languages;and computer algorithms for systematic specification, modeling,;simulation, and analysis of physical;objects and systems.;[ UW | COE | Depts | Centers | Consortia | Services | Fountain ];[ Index | Search | Mail | What's New | Credits | Help ];Last Modified: Thursday, 18-Jul-96 10:39:07 CDT;This page is best viewed by browsers that support TABLES.;All photographs © 1996 College of Engineering.;Address comments to webmaster@engr.wisc.edu;Update Profile;"
